The four-hour work week. Escape the 9 to 5, live anywhere, and join the new rich, by Timothy Ferris.
Continued, Disc 7.
Back among the narwhals, Josh had a few minutes before heading to base camp to avoid polar bears.
24-hour daylight meant that he had much to share with his friends back in the land of cubicles.
He sat down on the ice and produced his satellite phone and laptop from a waterproof bag.
He began his email in the usual way.
I know you're all sick of seeing me have so much fun, but guess where I am.
Q&A. Questions and actions.
It is fatal to know too much at the outcome.
Boredom comes as quickly to the traveller who knows his route as to the novelist who is over certain of his plot.
Paul Theroux. To the Ends of the Earth.
If this is your first time considering a commitment to the mobile lifestyle and long-term adventuring, I envy you.
Making the jump and entering the new worlds that await is like upgrading your role in life from passenger to pilot.
The bulk of this Q&A will focus on the precise steps that you should take and the countdown timeline you can use when preparing for your first mini-retirement.
Most steps can be eliminated or condensed once you get one trip under your belt.
Some of the steps are one-time events, after which subsequent mini-retirements will require a maximum of two to three weeks of preparation.
It now takes me three afternoons. Grab a pencil and paper. This will be fun.
One. Take an asset and cash flow snapshot.
Set two sheets of paper on a table. Use one to record all assets and corresponding values, including bank accounts, retirement accounts, stocks, bonds, home, and so forth.
On the second, draw a line down the middle and write down all incoming cash flow, salary, MUSE income, investment income, etc.
and outgoing expenses, mortgage, rent, car payments, etc.
What can you eliminate that is either seldom used or that creates stress or distraction without adding a lot of value?
Two. Fear set a one-year mini-retirement in a dream location in Europe.
Use the questions from Chapter 3 to evaluate your worst-case scenario fears and evaluate the real potential consequences.
Except in rare cases, most will be avoidable and the rest will be reversible.
Three. Choose a location for your actual mini-retirement. Where to start?
This is the big question. There are two options that I advocate.
A. Choose a starting point and then wander until you find your second home.
This is what I did with a one-way ticket to London, vagabonding throughout Europe until I fell in love with Berlin, where I remained for three months.
B. Scout a region and then settle in your favorite spot.
This is what I did with a tour of Central and South America, where I spent one to four weeks in each of several cities, after which I returned to my favorite, Buenos Aires, for six months.
It is possible to take a mini-retirement in your own country, but the transformative effect is hampered if you are surrounded by people who carry the same socially reinforced baggage.
I recommend choosing an overseas location that will seem foreign, but that isn't dangerous.
I box, race motorcycles, and do all sorts of macho things, but I draw the line at favelas, Brazilian shabby towns.
See the movie City of God to get a taste for how fun these are.
Civilians with machine guns, pedestrians with machetes, and social strife.
Cheap is good, but bullet holes are bad.
Check the U.S. Department of State for travel warnings before booking tickets.
Here are just a few of my favorite starting points. Feel free to choose other locations.
The most lifestyle for the dollar is underlined.
Ireland, Galway, Thailand, Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Germany, Berlin, Munich, Norway, Oslo, Australia, Sydney, New Zealand, Queenstown, Italy, Rome, Milan, Florence, Spain, Madrid, Valencia, Sevilla, and Holland, Amsterdam.
In all of these places, it is possible to live well while spending little.
I spend less in Tokyo than in California because I know it well.
Hip, recently gentrified artist areas, not unlike the Brooklyn of ten years ago, can be found in almost all cities.
The one place I can't seem to find a decent lunch for less than $20 U.S.? London.
Here are a few exotic places I don't recommend for vagabonding virgins.
All countries in Africa, the Middle East, or Central and South America, except in Costa Rica and Argentina.
Mexico City and United States-Mexico border areas are also a bit too kidnap happy to make it onto my favorite list.
Three months out? Eliminate. Get used to minimalism before the departure.
Here are the questions to ask and act upon even if you never plan to leave.
What is the 20% of my belongings that I use 80% of the time?
Eliminate the other 80% in clothing, magazines, books, and all else.
Be ruthless. You can always repurchase things you can't live without.
Which belongings create stress in my life?
This could relate to maintenance costs, money and energy, insurance, monthly expenses, time consumption, or simple distraction.
Eliminate, eliminate, eliminate.
If you sell even a few expensive items, it could finance a good portion of your mini-retirement.
Don't rule out the car and home. It's always possible to purchase either upon your return, often losing no money in the process.
Check current health insurance coverage for extended overseas travel.
Get the wheels in motion to rent or sell your home.
Renting out is most recommended by serial vagabonds.
Or end your apartment lease and move all belongings into storage.
In all cases where doubts crop up, ask yourself, if I had a gun to my head and had to do it, how would I do it?
It's not as hard as you think.
Two months out. Automate.
After eliminating the excess, contact companies including suppliers that bill you regularly and set up auto payment with credit cards that have reward points.
Telling them that you will be traveling the world for a year often persuades them to accept credit cards rather than chase you around the planet like Carmen Sandiego.
For the credit card companies themselves and others that refuse, arrange automatic debit from your checking account.
Set up online banking and bill payment.
Set up all companies that won't take credit cards or automatic debit as online payees.
Set these scheduled checks for $15 to $20 more than expected when dealing with utilities and other variable expenses.
This will cover miscellaneous fees, prevent time-consuming billing problems, and accrue as credit.
Cancel paper bank and credit card statement delivery.
Get bank issued credit cards for all checking accounts, generally one for business and one for personal, and set the cash advances to $0 to minimize abuse potential.
Leave these cards at home as they are just for emergency overdraft protection.
Give a trusted member of your family and or your accountant power of attorney, which gives that person authority to sign documents, tax filings, and checks, for example, in your name.
Nothing screws up foreign fun faster than having to sign original documents when faxes are unacceptable.
This is a serious step and should not be taken with those you do not trust.
In this case, it helps because your accountant can then sign tax documents or checks in your name instead of consuming hours and days of your time with faxes, scanners, and expensive international FedExing of documents.
One month out.
Speak to the manager of your local post office and have all mail forwarded to a friend, family member, or personal assistant who will be paid $100 to $200 per month to email you brief descriptions of all non-junk mail each Monday.
Get all required and recommended immunizations and vaccinations for your target region.
Check the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, www.cdc.gov forward slash travel.
Note that proof of immunizations is sometimes required to pass through foreign customs.
Set up a trial account with GoToMyPC.com or similar remote access software and take a dry run to ensure that there are no technological glitches.
This would be used if you leave your computer at home or in someone else's home while traveling.
This step can be skipped if you bring your computer, but that is like a recovering heroin addict bringing a bag of opium to rehab.
Don't tempt yourself to kill time instead of rediscovering it.
If resellers or distributors still send you checks, the fulfillment house should handle customer checks at this point.
Do one of three things.
Give the resellers direct bank deposit information, ideal.
Have the fulfillment house handle these checks, second choice.
Or have the reseller pay via PayPal or mail checks to one of the people you are trusting with power of attorney, FAR third.
In the last case, give the person with power of attorney deposit slips so he or she can sign or stamp and mail in the checks.
It is convenient to become a member of a large bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Washington Mutual, Citibank, etc.
with branches near the person assisting you so that they can drop off the deposits while running other errands.
No need to move all accounts to this bank if you don't want to.
Just open a single new account that is used solely for these deposits.
Two weeks out, scan all identification, health insurance and credit debit cards into a computer from which you can print multiple copies,
several to be left with family members and several to be taken with you in separate bags.
Email the scanned file to yourself so that you can access it while abroad if you lose the paper copies.
If you are an entrepreneur, downgrade your cell phone to the cheapest plan and set up a voicemail greeting that states,
I am currently overseas on business. Please do not leave a voicemail as I will not be checking it while gone.
Please send me an email at blank at blank dot com if the matter is important.
Thank you for your understanding.
Then set up email autoresponders that indicate responses could take up to seven days or whatever you decide for frequency due to international business travel.
If you are an employee, consider getting a quad band or GSM compatible cell phone so that the boss can contact you.
Get a BlackBerry only if your boss will be checking to see if you were working via email.
Be sure to disable the dead giveaway sent from a BlackBerry signature on outgoing email.
Other options include using a Skype in account that forwards to your foreign cell phone, my preference,
or a Vonage IP box that allows you to receive landline calls anywhere in the world via a phone number that begins with your home area code.
Find an apartment for your ultimate mini-retirement destination or reserve a hostel or hotel at your starting point for three to four days.
Reserving an apartment before you arrive is riskier and will be much more expensive than using the latter three to four days to find an apartment.
I recommend hostels for the starting point if possible, not for cost considerations,
but because the staff and fellow travelers are more knowledgeable and helpful with relocations.
Get foreign medical evacuation insurance if needed for peace of mind.
This tends to be redundant if you are in a first-world country and can buy local insurance to augment your own, which I do,
and it is useless if you are a 10-hour flight from civilization.
I had evacuation insurance in Panama, as it's a two-hour flight from Miami, but I didn't bother elsewhere.
Don't freak out about this, it's just as true if you're in the middle of nowhere in the middle of the United States.
One week out.
Decide on a schedule for routine batched tasks, such as email, online banking, etc.,
to eliminate excuses for senseless pseudo-work procrastubating.
I suggest Monday mornings for checking email and online banking.
The first and third Mondays of the month can be used for checking credit cards and making other online payments, such as affiliates.
These promises to yourself will be the hardest to keep, so make a commitment now and expect serious withdrawal cravings.
Save important documents, including the scan of your identification insurance and credit debit cards,
to a small handheld storage device that plugs into a computer USB port.
Move all things out of your home or apartment into storage, pack a single small backpack,
and carry on bag for the adventure, and move in briefly with a family member or friend.
Three days out.
Put remaining automobiles into storage or friend's garage.
Put fuel stabilizer in the gas tanks.
Disconnect the negative leads from batteries to prevent drain, and put the vehicles on jack stands to prevent tire and shock damage.
Cancel all auto insurance except for theft coverage.
Upon arrival, assuming you have not booked an apartment in advance,
first morning and afternoon after check-in,
take a hop-on hop-off bus tour of the city followed by a bike tour of potential apartment neighborhoods.
First, late afternoon or evening, purchase an unlocked cell phone with a SIM card that can be recharged with simple prepaid cards.
Unlocked means that it is recharged with prepaid cards instead of being on a monthly payment plan with a single carrier, such as O2 or Vodafone.
This also means that the same phone can be used with carriers in other countries,
assuming the frequency is the same, with a simple switch of the SIM memory card for $10 to $30 U.S. in most cases.
Some U.S. compatible quad-band phones can use SIM cards.
Email apartment owners or brokers on craigslist.com and online versions of local newspapers for viewings over the next two days.
Second and third days.
Find and book an apartment for one month.
Don't commit to more than one month until you've slept there.
I once prepaid two months only to find that the busiest bus stop downtown was on the other side of my bedroom wall.
Move-in day.
Get settled and purchase local health insurance.
Ask hostel owners and other locals what insurance they use.
Resolve not to buy souvenirs or other take-home items until two weeks prior to departure.
One week later.
Eliminate all the extra crap you brought but won't use often.
Either give it to someone who needs it more, mail it back to the United States, or throw it out.
Tools and tricks.
Brainstorming many retirement locations.
Virtual Tourist.
www.virtualtourist.com.
The single largest source of unbiased, user-generated travel content in the world.
More than 775,000 members contribute tips and warnings for more than 25,000 locations.
Each location is covered in 13 separate categories like things to do, local customs, shopping, and tourist traps.
This is one-stop shopping for most many retirements.
Escape Artist.
www.escapeartist.com.
Interested in second passports, starting your own country, Swiss banking, and all the other things I wouldn't dare put in this book?
This site is a fantastic resource.
When our president starts World War III, you'll want to have an escape plan.
Drop me a note from the Caymans or jail, whichever comes first.
Outside Magazine Online Free Archives.
http://outside.away.com
The entire archive of Outside Magazine is available online for free.
From meditation camps to worldwide adrenaline hotspots and from dream jobs to Patagonia winter highlights,
there are hundreds of articles with beautiful photos to give you the walkabout itch.
Grid Skipper.
The Urban Travel Guide.
www.gridskipper.com.
For those who love Blade Runner-like settings and exploring the cool nooks and crannies of cities worldwide, this is the site.
It is one of Forbes' top 13 travel sites and is highfalutin and lowbrow all in the same breath.
Fromers.
Translation.
Much of the content is not G-rated.
If four-letter words or a world's sluttiest city poll bothers you, don't bother visiting this site, or Rio de Janeiro for that matter.
Otherwise, check out the hysterical writing and $100 a day for cities worldwide.
Lonely Planet.
The Thorn Tree.
http://thorntree.lonelyplanet.com
Discussion Forum for Global Travelers with Threads Separated by Region.
Family Travel Forum.
www.familytravelforum.com
A comprehensive forum on, you guessed it, family travel.
Want to sell your kids for top dollar in the Eastern Bloc or save a few dollars and cremate granny in Thailand?
Then this isn't the site.
But if you have kids and are planning a big trip, this is the place.
U.S. Department of State Country Profiles.
www.state.gov forward slash r forward slash pa forward slash ei forward slash bgn
World Travel Watch.
www.worldtravelwatch.com
Larry Habegger and James O'Reilly's weekly online report of global events and odd happenings relevant to travel safety,
sorted by topic and geographic region, concise and must-see prior to finalizing plans.
U.S. Department of State Worldwide Travel Warnings.
http colon forward slash forward slash travel dot state dot gov
Mini Retirement Planning and Preparation Fundamentals.
Round the World FAC Includes Travel Insurance.
www.perpetualtravel.com forward slash rtw
This FAC is a lifesaver.
Originally written by Mark Brosius, it has been added to by newsgroup participants for years
and now covers nuts and bolts from financial planning to return culture shock and all in between.
How long can you afford to be away?
Do you need travel insurance?
Leave of absence or resignation?
This is an around the world almanac.
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
www.cdc.gov forward slash travel
Recommended vaccinations and health planning for every nation in the world.
Certain countries require proof of inoculations to pass through customs.
Get the shots well ahead of time as some take weeks to order.
Tax Planning.
www.irs.gov forward slash publications forward slash p54 forward slash index dot html
More good news.
Even if you permanently relocate to another country, you will have to pay U.S. taxes as long as you have a U.S. passport.
Not to fret.
There are some creative legal side steps such as Form 2555EZ that can provide up to an $80,000 income exemption
if you spend at least $330 of a consecutive 365 days off U.S. soil.
That's part of the reason my 2004 trip extended to 15 months.
Get a good accountant and let them do the detail work to keep yourself out of trouble.
U.S. Sponsored Overseas Schools.
www.state.gov forward slash m forward slash a forward slash os
If the idea of pulling your children out of school for a year or two doesn't appeal,
stick them in one of these 185 elementary and secondary schools sponsored by the U.S. Department of State in 132 countries.
Kids love homework.
Universal Currency Converter.
www.xe.com
Before you get caught up in the excitement and forget that five British pounds does not equal five U.S. dollars,
use this to translate local costs into numbers you understand.
Try not to have too many, those coins are each worth four dollars.
Moments.
Universal Plug Adapter.
www.franzus.com
Carrying bulky cables and connectors is irritating.
Get a travel smart all-in-one adapter with surge protection.
The size of a pack of cards folded in half,
it is the only adapter that I've used everywhere without problems.
Note that it is an adapter, helps you plug things in, but it is not a transformer.
If the foreign wall outlet has twice as much voltage as in the United States,
your gadgets will self-destruct.
Yet another reason to purchase necessities abroad instead of taking them all with you.
World Electric Guide.
www.cropla.com
Figure out outlets, voltage, mobile phones, international dialing codes,
and all sorts of things related to electric mismatching worldwide.
Cheap and round-the-world airfare.
Orbitz.
www.orbitz.com
400-plus airlines worldwide.
This is the starting point for pricing comparisons.
Priceline.
www.priceline.com
Start bidding at 50% of the lowest Orbitz fare and move up in $50 increments.
Seafarers.
www.seafarers.com
Consolidator fares with free and low-cost memberships.
I found a round-trip ticket from California to Japan for $500.
1-800-FLY-Europe.
www.1-800-FLY-Europe.com
I used this to get the $300 round-trip from JFK to London that left two hours later.
Discount airlines for flights within Europe.
www.ryanair.com
www.easyjet.com
Free worldwide housing, short-term.
Global freeloaders.
www.globalfreeloaders.com
This online community brings people together to offer you free accommodations all over the world.
Save money and make new friends while seeing the world from a local's perspective.
The Couchsurfing Project.
www.couchsurfing.com
Similar to the above, but tends to attract a younger, more party-hearty crowd.
Hospitality Club.
www.hospitalityclub.org
Meet locals worldwide who can provide free tours or housing through this well-run network of more than 200,000 members in over 200 countries.
Free worldwide housing, long-term.
Home Exchange International.
www.homeexchange.com
800-877-8723
This is a home exchange listing and search service with more than 12,000 listings in more than 85 countries.
Email directly to potential homes, put your own home, apartment on the site, and have unlimited access to view listings for one year for a small membership fee.
Paid housing.
From arrival to the long haul.
Hostels.com
www.hostels.com
This site isn't just for youth hostels.
I found a nice hotel in downtown Tokyo for $20 per night and have used this site for similar housing in eight countries.
Think location and reviews.
See Hotel Chatter below instead of amenities.
Four-star hotels are for binge travelers.
This site can offer a real local flavor before you find an apartment or other long-term housing.
Hotel Chatter.
www.hotelchatter.com
Get the real scoop on this daily web journal with detailed and honest reviews of housing worldwide.
Updated several times daily, this site offers the stories of frustrated guests and those who have found hidden gems.
Online booking is available.
Craigslist.
www.craigslist.org
Besides local weekly magazines with housing listings such as Build or Zitti, no joke, in Berlin,
I have found Craigslist to be the single best starting point for long-term overseas furnished apartments.
As of this writing, there are more than 50 countries represented.
That said, prices will be 30 to 70 percent less in the local magazines.
If you have a tight budget, get a hostile employee or other local to help you make a few calls and strike a deal.
Ask the local helper not to mention that you're a foreigner until pricing is agreed upon.
Interhome International.
www.interhome.com
Based in Zurich, more than 20,000 homes for rent in Europe.
rentvillas.com
www.rentvillas.com
800-726-6702
Provides unique renting experiences from cottages and farmhouses to castles throughout Europe,
including France, Italy, Greece, Spain and Portugal.
Computer Remote Access Tools.
Go to My PC.
www.gotomipc.com
This software facilitates quick and easy remote access to your computer's files, programs, email and network.
It can be used from any web browser or Windows-enabled wireless device and works in real time.
I have used Go to My PC religiously for more than five years to access my US-based computers from countries and islands worldwide.
WebEx PC Now.
http://pcnow.webex.com
WebEx, the leader in corporate remote access, now offers software that does most of what Go to My PC offers,
including cut and paste between remote computers, local printing from remote computers, file transfers and more.
Gold Lantern Y-Finder.
www.goldlantern.com
homepages
yfinder.html
This tiny gadget, smaller than a matchbox, hangs from your keychain and enables you to find wireless internet signals within 300 feet.
It saves the uber-pane hassle of carrying around a laptop to find signals and even indicates signal strength.
Free and low-cost internet IP telephones.
Skype.
www.skype.com
I haven't made a non-Skype international call since this free software debuted.
It allows you to call landlines and mobile phones across the globe for an average of 2 to 3 cents per minute or connect with other Skype worldwide users for free.
For about 40 euros per year, you can get a US number with your home area code and receive calls that forward to a foreign cell phone.
This makes your travel invisible.
Lounge on the beach in Rio and answer calls to your office in California.
Nice.
Vonage.
www.vonage.com
Vonage offers a small adapter that connects your broadband modem to a normal phone.
Take it on your travels and set it up in your apartment to receive calls to a US number.
International multi-band and GSM compatible phones.
My World Phone.
www.myworldphone.com
I'm partial to Nokia phones.
Ensure whichever phone you purchase is unlocked, which means that the SIM card can be swapped out in different countries with different providers.
World Electronics USA.
www.worldelectronicsusa.com
Good explanation of which GSM frequencies and bands function in which countries.
This will determine which phone you purchase for travel and perhaps home.
Tools for off the beaten path.
Satellite phones.
www.satphonestore.com
If you will be in the mountains of Nepal or on a remote island and want the peace of mind, or headache, of having a phone nearby, these phones work via satellite instead of towers.
Iridium has been recommended for widest pole-to-pole reception with Global Star in second place on three continents.
Rent or purchase.
Pocket sized solar panels.
www.solio.com
Satellite phones and other small electronics are of little use.
Skipping stones, perhaps, if their batteries die.
Solio is about the size of two packs of cards and fans out into small solar panels.
I was surprised to find that it charged my cell phone in less than 15 minutes, more than twice as fast as a wall outlet.
Adapters are available for almost anything.
What to do once you get there.
Career experiments and more.
Transitions Abroad.
www.transitionsabroad.com
This is The Motherload.
See Restricted Reading for more details.
Meetup.
www.meetup.com
Search by city and activity to find people who share similar interests all over the world.
Become a travel writer.
www.writtenroad.com
Get paid to travel the world and record your thoughts.
This is a dream job for millions.
Get the inside scoop on the travel publishing world from veteran Jen Leo, author of Sand in My Bra and Other Misadventures, Funny Women Right from the Road.
This blog was a Fromer's budget travel top choice and also features great practical articles about going gadgetless and low-tech travel.
Teach English.
www.eslcafe.com
Dave's ESL Cafe is one of the oldest and most useful resources for teachers, would-be teachers and learners of English.
Features discussion boards and teachers wanted job postings worldwide.
Turn Your Brain into Play-Doh.
www.jiwire.com
Travel the world so you can instant message with your friends at home.
This site lists more than 150,000 hotspots where you can feed your information OCD.
Be ashamed if this becomes your default activity.
If you're bored, just remember, it's your fault.
I've been there, so I'm not preaching.
It happens to the best of us from time to time, but get more creative.
Test a new career, part or full-time.
www.workingoverseas.com
This encyclopedia is an exhaustive menu of options for the globally minded.
It is compiled and updated by Jean-Marc Hachet, the International Careers Editor of Transitions Abroad magazine.
$15 U.S. for one-year access.
Worldwide opportunities on organic farms.
www.wwoof.com
Learn and then teach sustainable organic farming techniques in dozens of countries,
including Turkey, New Zealand, Norway and French Polynesia.
Chat and email in a language you don't know.
Free translation.
www.freetranslation.com
Translate text from English into a dozen languages and vice versa.
Surprisingly accurate, though the lost in translation 10 to 20% can get you in trouble slash fun.
Become fluent in record time.
Language addicts and accelerated learning.
www.4hourworkweek.com
For all things language related, from detailed how-to articles,
how to reactivate forgotten languages,
memorize 1,000 words per week, master tones, etc.
to mnemonics and the best electronic shortcuts,
visit www.4hourworkweek.com
Learning languages is an addiction of mine and a skill I have taken apart and reassembled to be faster.
It is possible to become conversationally fluent in any language in three to six months.
Chapter 15. Filling the Void. Adding Life After Subtracting Work.
To be engrossed by something outside ourselves is a powerful antidote for the rational mind,
the mind that so frequently has its head up its own ass, and Lamotte, bird by bird.
There is not enough time to do all the nothing we want to do.
Bill Watterson, creator of the Calvin and Hobbes cartoon strip.
Kings Cross, London
I stumbled into the deli across the cobblestone street and ordered a prosciutto sandwich.
It was 10.33 a.m. now, the fifth time I'd checked the time,
and the twentieth time I'd asked myself, what the bleep am I going to do today?
The best answer I had come up with so far was, get a sandwich.
Thirty minutes earlier I had woken up without an alarm clock for the first time in four years,
fresh off arriving from JFK the night before.
I had so been looking forward to it, awakening to musical birdsong outside,
sitting up in bed with a smile, smelling the aroma of freshly brewed coffee,
and stretching out overhead like a cat in the shade of a Spanish villa. Magnificent.
It turned out more like this.
Bolt upright as if blasted with a foghorn, grab clock, curse, jump out of bed in underwear to check email.
Remember that I was forbidden to do so, curse again, look for my host and former classmate,
realize that he was off to work like the rest of the world, and proceed to have a panic attack.
I spent the rest of the day in a haze, wandering from museum to botanical garden to museum,
as if on rinse and repeat, avoiding internet cafes with some vague sense of guilt.
I needed a to-do list to feel productive and so put down things like, eat dinner.
This was going to be a lot harder than I had thought.
Postpartum depression. It's normal.
Man is so made that he can only find relaxation from one kind of labor by taking up another.
Anatole of France, author of The Crime of Sylvester Bonnard
I've got more money and time than I ever dreamed possible. Why am I depressed?
It's a good question with a good answer. Just be glad you're figuring this out now and not at the end of life.
The retired and ultra-rich are often unfulfilled and neurotic for the same reason, too much idle time.
But wait a second. Isn't more time what we're after? Isn't that what this book is all about?
No, not at all. Too much free time is no more than fertilizer for self-doubt and assorted mental tail-chasing.
Subtracting the bad does not create the good. It leaves a vacuum.
Decreasing income-driven work isn't the end goal. Living more and becoming more is.
In the beginning the external fantasies will be enough and there is nothing wrong with this.
I cannot overemphasize the importance of this period. Go nuts and live your dreams.
This is not superficial or selfish. It is critical to stop repressing yourself and get out of the postponement habit.
Let's suppose you decide to dip your toe in dreams like relocating to the Caribbean for island hopping or taking a safari in the Serengeti.
It will be wonderful and unforgettable and you should do it.
There will come a time, however, be it three weeks or three years later, when you won't be able to drink another piña colada or photograph another damn red-assed baboon.
Self-criticism and existential panic attacks start around this time.
But this is what I always wanted. How can I be bored?
Don't freak out and fuel the fire. This is normal among all high performers who downshift after working hard for a long time.
The smarter and more goal-oriented you are, the tougher these growing pains will be.
Learning to replace the perception of time famine with appreciation of time abundance is like going from triple espressos to decaf.
But there's more. Retirees get depressed for a second reason and you will too. Social isolation.
Offices are good for some things. Free bad coffee and complaining thereof. Gossip and commiserating.
Stupid video clips via email with even stupider comments and meetings that accomplish nothing but kill a few hours with a few laughs.
The job itself might be a dead end, but it's the web of human interactions, the social environment that keeps us there.
Once liberated, this automatic tribal unit disappears, which makes the voices in your head louder.
Don't be afraid of the existential or social challenges. Freedom is like a new sport.
In the beginning, the sheer newness of it is exciting enough to keep things interesting at all times.
Once you have learned the basics, though, it becomes clear that to be even a half-decent player requires some serious practice.
Don't fret. The greatest rewards are to come, and you're ten feet from the finish line.
Frustrations and doubts. You're not alone.
People say that what we are seeking is a meaning for life. I don't think this is what we're really seeking.
I think what we're seeking is an experience of being alive. Joseph Campbell, The Power of Myth.
Once you eliminate the nine-to-five and the rubber hits the road, it's not all roses and white sand bliss, though much of it can be.
Without the distraction of deadlines and co-workers, the big questions, such as what does it all mean, become harder to fend off for a later time.
In a sea of infinite options, decisions also become harder. What the hell should I do with my life? It's like senior year in college all over again.
Like all innovators ahead of the curve, you will have frightening moments of doubt.
Once past the kidney candy store phase, the comparative impulse will creep in.
The rest of the world will continue with its nine-to-five grind, and you'll begin to question your decision to step off the treadmill.
Common doubts and self-flagellation include the following.
1. Am I really doing this to be more free and lead a better life, or am I just lazy?
2. Did I quit the rat race because it's bad, or just because I couldn't hack it? Did I just cop out?
3. Is this as good as it gets? Perhaps I was better off when I was following orders and ignorant of the possibilities. It was easier, at least.
4. Am I really successful, or just kidding myself?
5. Have I lowered my standards to make myself a winner? Are my friends, who are now making twice as much as three years ago, really on the right track?
6. Why am I not happy? I can do anything, and I'm still not happy. Do I even deserve it?
Most of this can be overcome as soon as we recognize it for what it is.
Outdated comparisons using the more is better and money as success mindsets that got us into trouble to begin with.
Even so, there is a more profound observation to be made.
These doubts invade the mind when nothing else fills it.
Think of a time when you felt 100% alive and undistracted, in the zone.
Chances are that it was when you were completely focused in the moment on something external.
Someone or something else. Sports and sex are two great examples.
Lacking an external focus, the mind turns inward on itself and creates problems to solve, even if the problems are undefined or unimportant.
If you find a focus, an ambitious goal that seems impossible and forces you to grow, these doubts disappear.
Abraham Maslow, the American psychologist famous for proposing Maslow's hierarchy of needs, would term this goal a peak experience.
In the process of searching for a new focus, it is almost inevitable that the big questions will creep in.
There is pressure from pseudo-philosophers everywhere to cast aside the impertinent and answer the eternal.
Two popular examples are, what is the meaning of life and what is the point of it all?
There are many more, ranging from the introspective to the ontological, but I have one answer for almost all of them.
I don't answer them at all.
I'm no nihilist. In fact, I've spent more than a decade investigating the mind and concept of meaning,
a quest that has taken me from the neuroscience laboratories of top universities to the halls of religious institutions worldwide.
The conclusion, after it all, is surprising.
I am 100% convinced that most big questions we feel compelled to face,
handed down through centuries of overthinking and mistranslation,
use terms so undefined as to make attempting to answer them a complete waste of time.
There is a place for Coens and rhetorical meditative questions,
but these tools are optional and outside the scope of this book.
Most questions without answers are just poorly worded.
This isn't depressing. It's liberating.
Consider the question of questions. What is the meaning of life?
If pressed, I have but one response. It is the characteristic state or condition of a living organism.
But that's just a definition the questioner will retort. That's not what I mean at all.
What do you mean, then?
Until the question is clear, each term in it defined, there is no point in answering it.
The meaning of life question is unanswerable without further elaboration.
Before spending time on a stress-inducing question, big or otherwise,
ensure that the answer is yes to the following two questions.
1. Have I decided on a single meaning for each term in this question?
2. Can an answer to this question be acted upon to improve things?
What is the meaning of life fails the first and thus the second?
Questions about things beyond your sphere of influence, like what if the train is late tomorrow,
fail the second and should thus be ignored. These are not worthwhile questions.
If you can't define it or act upon it, forget it.
If you take just this point from this book, it will put you in the top 1% of performers in the world
and keep most philosophical distress out of your life.
Sharpening your logical and practical mental toolbox is not being an atheist or unspiritual.
It's not being crass and it's not being superficial.
It's being smart and putting your effort where it can make the biggest difference for yourself and others.
What man actually needs is not a tensionless state but rather the striving and struggling for a worthwhile goal,
a freely chosen task.
Victor E. Frankel, Holocaust survivor, author of Man's Search for Meaning
Some criticize a focus on self-love and enjoyment as selfish or hedonistic, but it's neither.
Enjoying life and helping others or feeling good about yourself and increasing the greater good
are no more mutually exclusive than being agnostic and leading a moral life.
One does not preclude the other. Let's assume we agree on this.
It still leaves the question, what can I do with my time to enjoy life and feel good about myself?
I can't offer a single answer that will fit all people, but based on the dozens of fulfilled NR I've interviewed,
there are two components that are fundamental, continual learning and service.
Americans who travel abroad for the first time are often shocked to discover that,
despite all the progress that has been made in the last 30 years,
many foreign people still speak in foreign languages.
What I live is to learn. I see no other option.
This is why I felt compelled to quit or be fired from jobs within the first six months or so.
The learning curve flattens out and I get bored.
Though you can upgrade your brain domestically, traveling and relocating provides unique conditions
that make progress much faster.
The different surroundings act as a counterpoint and mirror for your own prejudices,
making weaknesses that much easier to fix.
I rarely travel somewhere without deciding first how I'll obsess on a specific skill.
Here are a few examples.
I tend to focus on language acquisition and one kinesthetic skill,
sometimes finding the latter after landing overseas.
The most successful serial vagabonds tend to blend the mental and the physical.
Notice that I often transport a skill I practice domestically, martial arts,
to other countries where they are also practiced.
Instant social life and camaraderie.
It need not be a competitive sport, it could be hiking, chess,
or almost anything that keeps your nose out of a textbook and you out of your apartment.
Sports just happen to be excellent for avoiding foreign language stage fright
and developing lasting friendships while still sounding like Tarzan.
Language learning deserves special mention.
It is, bar none, the best thing you can do to hone clear thinking.
Quite aside from the fact that it is impossible to understand a culture
without understanding its language, acquiring a new language
makes you aware of your own language, your own thoughts.
The benefits of becoming fluent in a foreign tongue
are as underestimated as the difficulty is overestimated.
Thousands of theoretical linguists will disagree,
but I know from research and personal experimentation
with more than a dozen languages that,
one, adults can learn languages much faster than children,
when constant nine-to-five work is removed,
and that, two, it is possible to become conversationally fluent
in any language in six months or less.
At four hours per day, six months can be whittled down to less than three months.
It is beyond the scope of this book to explain applied linguistics
and the 80-20 of language learning,
but resources and complete how-to guides can be found on www.4hourworkweek.com.
I learned six languages after failing Spanish in high school,
and you can do the same with the right tools.
Gain a language and you gain a second lens through which to question
and understand the world.
Cursing at people when you go home is fun, too.
Don't miss the chance to double your life experience.
One would expect me to mention service in this chapter, and here it is.
Like all before it, the twist is a bit different.
Service to me is simple, doing something that improves life besides your own.
This is not the same as philanthropy.
Philanthropy is the altruistic concern for the well-being of mankind, human life.
Human life has long been focused on the exclusion of the environment
and the rest of the food chain,
hence our current race to imminent extinction serves us right.
The world does not exist solely for the betterment and multiplication of mankind.
Before I start chaining myself to trees and saving the dart frogs, though,
I should take my own advice.
Do not become a cause snob.
How can you help starving children in Africa when there are starving children in Los Angeles?
How can you save the whales when homeless people are freezing to death?
How does doing volunteer research on coral destruction help those people who need help now?
Children, please, everything out there needs help, so don't get baited into
my cause can beat up your cause arguments with no right answer.
There are no qualitative or quantitative comparisons that make sense.
The truth is this.
Those thousands of lives you save could contribute to a famine that kills millions,
or that one bush in Bolivia that you protect could hold the cure for cancer.
The downstream effects are unknown.
Do your best and hope for the best.
If you're improving the world, however you define that, consider your job well done.
Service isn't limited to saving lives or the environment either.
It can also improve life.
If you are a musician and put a smile on the faces of thousands or millions,
I view that as service.
If you are a mentor and change the life of one child for the better,
the world has been improved.
Improving the quality of life in the world is in no fashion inferior to adding more lives.
Service is an attitude.
Find the cause or vehicle that interests you most and make no apologies.
Q&A. Questions and actions.
Adults are always asking kids what they want to be when they grow up
because they are looking for ideas.
Paula Poundstone.
The miracle is not to walk on water.
The miracle is to walk on the green earth dwelling deeply in the present moment
and feeling truly alive.
Thich Nhat Hanh.
But I can't just travel, learn languages, or fight for one cause for the rest of my life.
Of course you can't.
That's not my suggestion at all.
These are just good life hubs, starting points that lead to opportunities
and experiences that otherwise wouldn't be found.
There is no right answer to the question what should I do with my life.
Forget should altogether.
The next step, and that's all it is, is pursuing something.
It matters little what.
That seems fun or rewarding.
Don't be in a rush to jump into a full-time, long-term commitment.
Take time to find something that calls to you,
not just the first acceptable form of surrogate work.
That calling will, in turn, lead you to something else.
Here is a good sequence for getting started that dozens of N.R. have used with success.
1. Revisit ground zero. Do nothing.
Before we can escape the goblins of the mind, we need to face them.
Principle among them is speed addiction.
It is hard to recalibrate your internal clock
without taking a break from constant overstimulation.
Travel and the impulse to see a million things can exacerbate this.
Slowing down doesn't mean accomplishing less.
It means cutting out counterproductive distractions
and the perception of being rushed.
Consider attending a short silence retreat of three to seven days
during which all media and speaking is prohibited.
Learn to turn down the static of the mind
so you can appreciate more before doing more.
2. Make an anonymous donation to the service organization of your choice.
This helps to get the juices flowing
and disassociate feeling good about service with getting credit for it.
It feels even better when it's pure.
Here are some good sites to get started.
Charity Navigator.
www.charitynavigator.com
www.charitynavigator.com
www.charitynavigator.com
www.charitynavigator.com
Charity Navigator.
www.charitynavigator.org
This independent service ranks more than 5,000 charities
using criteria you select.
Create a personalized page of favorites and compare them side by side,
all free of charge.
First Giving.
www.firstgiving.com
Firstgiving.com allows you to create an online fundraising page.
Donations can be made through your personal URL.
If you specifically want to help animals, for example,
you can click on a related link and access websites for hundreds of different animal charities
and then decide which one you want to donate to.
The UK version of the website is
http://www.justgiving.com
Network for Good.
www.networkforgood.org
Visitors to this website will find links to charities in need of donations
as well as opportunities to do volunteer work.
They can also set up an automated credit card donation online.
3. Take a learning mini-retirement in combination with local volunteering.
Take a mini-retirement, six months or more if possible, to focus on learning and serving.
The longer duration will permit a language focus,
which in turn enables more meaningful interaction and contribution through volunteering.
For the duration of this trip, note self-criticisms and negative self-talk in a journal.
Whenever upset or anxious, ask why at least three times and put the answers down on paper.
Describing these doubts in writing reduces their impact twofold.
First, it's often the ambiguous nature of self-doubt that hurts most.
Defining and exploring it in writing, just as with forcing colleagues to email,
demands clarity of thought, after which most concerns are found to be baseless.
Second, recording these concerns seems to somehow remove them from your head.
But where to go and what to do? There is no one right answer to either.
Use the following questions and resources to brainstorm.
What makes you most angry about the state of the world?
What are you most afraid of for the next generation, whether you have children or not?
What makes you happiest in your life? How can you help others have the same?
There is no need to limit yourself to one location.
Remember Robin, who traveled through South America for a year with her husband and seven-year-old son?
The three of them spent one to two months doing volunteer work in each location,
including building wheelchairs in Banos, Ecuador,
rehabilitating exotic animals in the Bolivian rainforest,
and shepherding leatherback sea turtles in Suriname.
How about doing archaeological excavation in Jordan or tsunami relief on the islands of Thailand?
These are just two of the dozens of foreign relocation and volunteering case studies
in each issue of Transitions Abroad magazine www.transitions-abroad.com
More resources include the following
Airline Ambassadors International www.airlineamb.org
Ambassadors for Children www.ambassadorsforchildren.org
Relief Riders International www.reliefridersinternational.com
Habitat for Humanity Global Village Program www.habitat.org
Planeta Global Listings for Practical Ecotourism www.planeta.com
4. Revisit and Reset Dreamlines
Following the mini-retirement, revisit the dreamlines set in definition and reset them as needed.
The following questions will help.
What are you good at?
What could you be the best at?
What makes you happy?
What excites you?
What makes you feel accomplished and good about yourself?
What are you most proud of having accomplished in your life?
Can you repeat this or further develop it?
What do you enjoy sharing or experiencing with other people?
5. Based on the outcomes of Steps 1-4, consider testing new part or full-time vocations
Full-time work isn't bad if it's what you'd rather be doing.
This is where we distinguish work from a vocation.
If you have created a muse or cut your hours down to next to nothing,
consider testing a part-time or full-time vocation, a true calling or dream occupation.
This is what I did with this book.
I can now tell people I'm a writer rather than giving them the two-hour drug dealer explanation.
What did you dream of being when you were a kid?
Perhaps it's time to sign up for space camp or intern as an assistant to a marine biologist.
Recapturing the excitement of childhood isn't impossible.
In fact, it's required.
There are no more chains or excuses to hold you back.
Chapter 16. The Top 13 New Rich Mistakes
If you don't make mistakes, you're not working on hard enough problems, and that's a big mistake.
Frank Vilcek, 2004 Nobel Prize winner in physics.
Ho imparato ce niente impossibile, e anche ce quasi niente e facile.
I've learned that nothing is impossible, and that almost nothing is easy.
Articolo 31 Italian rap group Un Orlo
Mistakes are the name of the game in lifestyle design.
It requires fighting impulse after impulse from the old world of retirement-based life deferral.
Here are the slip-ups you will make.
Don't get frustrated. It's all part of the process.
1. Losing sight of dreams and falling into work for work's sake, W4W
Please listen to the introduction and next chapter of this book whenever you feel yourself falling into this trap.
Everyone does it, but many get stuck and never get out.
2. Micromanaging and emailing to fill the time.
Set the responsibilities, problem scenarios and rules, and limits of autonomous decision-making,
then stop for the sanity of everyone involved.
3. Handling problems your outsourcers or co-workers can handle.
4. Helping outsourcers or co-workers with the same problem more than once, or with non-crisis problems.
Give them, if then, rules for solving all but the largest problems.
Give them the freedom to act without your input.
Set the limits in writing, and then emphasize in writing that you will not respond to help with problems that are covered by these rules.
In my particular case, all outsourcers have at their discretion the ability to fix any problem that will cost less than $400.
At the end of each month or quarter, depending on the outsourcer,
I review how their decisions have affected profit and adjust the rules accordingly,
often adding new rules based on their good decisions and creative solutions.
5. Chasing customers, particularly unqualified or international prospects,
when you have sufficient cash flow to finance your non-financial pursuits.
6. Answering email that will not result in a sale or that can be answered by a FAC or autoresponder.
For a good example of an autoresponder that directs people to the appropriate information and outsourcers,
email info at brainquicken.com.
7. Working where you live, sleep, or should relax.
Separate your environments. Designate a single space for work and solely work, or you will never be able to escape it.
8. Not performing a thorough 80-20 analysis every two or four weeks for your business and personal life.
9. Striving for endless perfection rather than great or simply good enough, whether in your personal or professional life.
Recognize that this is often just another W4W excuse.
Most endeavors are like learning to speak a foreign language.
To be correct, 95% of the time requires six months of concentrated effort,
whereas to be correct, 98% of the time requires 20 to 30 years.
Focus on great for a few things and good enough for the rest.
Perfection is a good ideal and direction to have, but recognize it for what it is, an impossible destination.
10. Blowing minutiae and small problems out of proportion as an excuse to work.
11. Making non-time-sensitive issues urgent in order to justify work.
How many times do I have to say it?
Focus on life outside of your bank accounts, as scary as that void can be in the initial stages.
If you cannot find meaning in your life, it is your responsibility as a human being to create it,
whether that is fulfilling dreams or finding work that gives you purpose and self-worth, ideally a combination of both.
12. Viewing one product, job, or project as the end-all and be-all of your existence.
Life is too short to waste, but it is also too long to be a pessimist or nihilist.
Whatever you're doing now is just a stepping-stone to the next project or adventure.
Any rut you get into is one you can get yourself out of.
Doubts are no more than a signal for action of some type.
When in doubt or overwhelmed, take a break and 80-20 both business and personal activities and relationships.
13. Ignoring the social rewards of life.
Surround yourself with smiling, positive people who have absolutely nothing to do with work.
Create your muses alone if you must, but do not live your life alone.
Happiness shared in the form of friendships and love is happiness multiplied.
The Last Chapter
An email you need to read.
There is nothing the busy man is less busied with than living.
There is nothing harder to learn.
Seneca
For the past 33 years I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself if today were the last day of my life would I want to do what I am about to do today.
And whenever the answer has been no for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something, almost everything.
All external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure.
These things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.
Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose.
Steve Jobs, College Dropout and CEO of Apple Computer, Stanford University Commencement, 2005
If you're confused about life, you're not alone.
There are almost 7 billion of us.
This isn't a problem, of course, once you realize that life is neither a problem to be solved nor a game to be won.
If you are too intent on making the pieces of a non-existent puzzle fit, you miss out on all the real fun.
The heaviness of success-chasing can be replaced with a serendipitous lightness when you recognize that the only rules and limits are those we set for ourselves.
So be bold and don't worry about what people think.
They don't do it that often anyway.
Two years ago I received an email from a terminally ill girl in a New York hospital.
I have re-read one portion of her letter many times and I hope you will do the same.
Here it is.
Slow Dance
Have you ever watched kids on a merry-go-round?
Or listened to the rain slapping on the ground?
Ever followed a butterfly's erratic flight?
Or gazed at the sun into the fading night?
You better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Do you run through each day on the fly?
When you ask, how are you?
Do you hear the reply?
When the day is done, do you lie in your bed with the next hundred chores running through your head?
You'd better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Ever told your child, we'll do it tomorrow?
And in your haste, not see his sorrow?
Ever lost touch?
Let a good friendship die?
Because you never had time to call and say hi?
You better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
When you run so fast to get somewhere, you miss half the fun of getting there.
When you worry and hurry through your day, it is like an unopened gift.
Thrown away.
Life is not a race.
Do take it slower.
Hear the music before the song is over.
Restricted reading.
The few that matter.
A hypocrite is a person who, but who isn't.
Don Marquis.
I know, I know, I said not to read too much.
Hence, the recommendations here are restricted to the best of the best this book's
interviewees and I have used and named when asked.
What is the one book that changed your life the most?
None of them are required to do what we've talked about in this book.
That said, consider them if you get stuck on a particular point.
The page counts are listed, and if you practice the exercises in how to read
200% faster in 10 minutes in Chapter 6, you should be able to read at least
2.5 pages per minute, 100 pages thus equals 40 minutes.
For additional categories, including practical philosophy, licensing,
and language learning, be sure to visit our comprehensive companions site.
The Fundamental Four.
Let me explain.
The Fundamental Four are so named because they are the four books I recommended
to aspiring lifestyle designers prior to writing the four-hour work week.
Still well worth reading.
Here is the sequence I suggest.
The Magic of Thinking Big, 192 pages by David Schwartz.
This book was first recommended to me by Stephen Key, an ultra successful
inventor who has made millions licensing products to companies including
Disney, Nestle, and Coca-Cola.
It is the favorite book of many super performers worldwide, ranging from
legendary football coaches to famous CEOs and has more than 100 five-star
ratings on Amazon.
The main message is don't overestimate others and underestimate yourself.
I still read the first two chapters of this book whenever doubt creeps in.
How to Make Millions with Your Ideas, an Entrepreneur's Guide, 272 pages by
Dan S. Kennedy.
This is a menu of options for converting ideas into millions.
I read this when I was in high school and have read it five times since.
It is like steroids for your entrepreneurship cortex.
The case studies from Domino's Pizza to casinos and mail order products are
outstanding.
The E Myth Revisited, Why Most Small Businesses Don't Work and What to Do
About It, 288 pages by Michael E. Gerber.
Gerber is a masterful storyteller and his classic of automation discusses how
to use a franchise mindset to create scalable businesses that are based on
rules and not outstanding employees.
It is an excellent roadmap told in parable for becoming an owner instead of
constant micromanager.
If you're stuck in your own business, this book will get you unstuck in no
time.
Vagabonding, an Uncommon Guide to the Art of Long-Term World Travel, 224 pages
by Rolf Potts.
Rolf is the man.
This is the book that got me to stop making excuses and pack for an extended
hiatus.
It covers bits of everything but is particularly helpful for determining your
destination, adjusting to life on the road, and re-assimilating back into
ordinary life.
It includes great little excerpts from famous vagabonds, philosophers, and
explorers, as well as anecdotes from ordinary travelers.
This is the first of two books, the other was Walden, that I took with me on
my first 15-month mini-retirement.
Reducing Emotional and Material Baggage.
Walden, 384 pages by Henry David Thoreau.
This is considered by many to be the masterpiece of reflective, simple
living.
Thoreau lived on the edge of a small lake in rural Massachusetts for two
years, building his own shelter and living alone as an experiment in
self-reliance and minimalism.
It was both a huge success and a failure, which is what makes this book
such a compelling read.
Less is More.
The Art of Voluntary Poverty.
An Anthology of Ancient and Modern Voices in Praise of Simplicity.
336 pages.
Edited by Goldian Vandenbroek.
This is a collection of bite-sized philosophies on simple living.
I read it to learn how to do the most with the least and eliminate artificial
needs, not live like a monk.
Big difference.
It incorporates actionable principles and short stories ranging from
Socrates to Benjamin Franklin and the Bhagavad Gita to modern economists.
The Monk and the Riddle.
The Education of a Silicon Valley Entrepreneur.
192 pages by Randy Commissar.
This great book was given to me by Professor Zhao as a graduation gift and
introduced me to the phrase deferred life plan.
Randy, a virtual CEO and partner at the legendary Kleiner Perkins, has been
described as a combined professional mentor, minister without portfolio,
in-your-face investor, troubleshooter, and door opener.
Let a true Silicon Valley wizard show you how he created his ideal life using
razor-sharp thinking and Buddhist-like philosophies.
I've met him.
He's the real deal.
The 80-20 Principle.
The Secret to Success by Achieving More with Less.
288 pages by Richard Koch.
This book explores the nonlinear world, discusses the mathematical,
and historical support for the 80-20 Principle, and offers practical
applications of the same.
Muse Creation and Related Skills.
Harvard Business School Case Studies.
www.hbsp.harvard.edu.
Click on School Cases.
One of the secrets behind Harvard Business School's teaching success is the
case method, using real-life case studies for discussion.
These cases take you inside the marketing and operational plans of 24-Hour Fitness,
Southwest Airlines, Timberland, and hundreds of other companies.
Few people realize that you can purchase these case studies for less than $10 apiece
instead of spending more than $100,000 to go to Harvard.
Not that the latter isn't worth it.
There is a case study for every situation, problem, and business model.
This business has legs.
How I Used Infomercial Marketing to Create the $100 Million Thighmaster Craze.
An Entrepreneurial Adventure Story.
206 pages by Peter Bieler.
This is the story of how a naive, in the best sense of the word, Peter Bieler
started from scratch.
No product, no experience, no cash, and created a $100 million merchandising
empire in less than two years.
It is a mind-expanding and often hysterical case study that uses real numbers
to discuss the fine points of everything from dealing with celebrities
to marketing, production, legal, and retail.
Peter can now finance the media purchases for your product.
www.mediafunding.com.
Secrets of Power Negotiating.
Inside Secrets from a Master Negotiator.
256 pages by Roger Dawson.
This is the one negotiating book that really opened my eyes
and gave me practical tools I could use immediately.
I used the audio adaptation.
If you're hungry for more, William Urey's Getting Past No and
G. Richard Schell's Bargaining for Advantage
Negotiation Strategies for Reasonable People are outstanding.
These are the only negotiating books you'll ever need.
Response Magazine.
www.responsemagazine.com.
This magazine is dedicated to the multi-billion dollar direct response
industry with a focus on television, radio, and internet marketing.
How-to articles, increasing sales per call, lowering media costs,
improving fulfillment, etc., are interspersed with case studies
of successful campaigns, George Foreman Grill, Girls Gone Wild, etc.
The best outsourcers in the business also advertise in this magazine.
This is an excellent resource at an excellent price.
Free.
Jordan Whitney Green Sheet.
www.jwgreensheet.com.
This is an insider secret of the DR world.
Jordan Whitney's weekly and monthly reports dissect the most successful
product campaigns, including offers, pricing, guarantees, and ad frequencies,
indicative of spending and thus profitability.
The publication also maintains an up-to-date tape library from which
infomercials and spot commercials can be purchased for competitive research.
Highly recommended.
Small Giants.
Companies that choose to be great instead of big.
256 pages.
By Beau Burlingham.
Longtime Inc. magazine editor-at-large Beau Burlingham crafts a beautiful
collage and analysis of companies that focus on being the best instead of
growing like cancer into huge corporations.
Companies include Cliff Bar, Inc., Anchor Steam Microbrewery,
Rockstar Annie DeFranco's Righteous Babe Records,
and a dozen more from different industries.
Bigger is not better, and this book proves it.
Negotiating World Travel and Preparing for Escape.
Six Months Off.
How to Plan, Negotiate, and Take the Break You Need
Without Burning Bridges or Going Broke.
252 pages.
By Hoped Glugosima, James Scott, and David Sharp.
This was the first book to make me step back and say,
holy bleep, I can actually do this.
It steamrolls over most fear factors related to long-term travel and offers
a step-by-step guide to taking time off to travel or pursue other goals
without giving up your career.
Full of case studies and useful checklists.
Transitions Abroad.
The Guide to Learning, Living, Working, and Volunteering Overseas.
http://transitionsabroad.com
This magazine is the central hub of alternative travel
and offers dozens of incredible options for the non-tourist.
Both the print and online versions are great starting points
for brainstorming how you will spend your time overseas.
How about excavating in Jordan or eco-volunteering in the Caribbean?
It's all here.
Bonus chapters.
This book is not just what you listen to.
There was much more I wanted to include but couldn't due to space constraints.
Use passwords hidden in this book to access some of the best I have to offer.
Here are just a few examples that took me years to assemble.
How to get $700,000 of advertising for $10,000 includes real scripts.
How to learn any language in three months.
Muse math, predicting the revenue of any product, includes case studies.
Licensing from Tybo to Teddy Ruxpin.
Real licensing agreement with real dollars.
This alone is worth $5,000.
Racier new rich case studies and interviews.
Online round-the-world RTW trip planner.
For this and much more reader-only content,
visit our companion site and free how-to message boards
at www.4hourworkweek.com
How would you like a free trip around the world?
Join us and see how simple it is.
This concludes the reading of The 4-Hour Workweek.
Escape the 9 to 5, Live Anywhere, and Join the New Rich by Timothy Ferris.
Copyright 2007 by Tim Ferris.
This book was read by Ray Porter.
This unabridged recording was published by arrangement with Crown Publishing Group,
a division of Random House Incorporated,
and was produced in 2007 by Blackstone Audio Incorporated,
which holds the copyright.
Neither this recording nor any portion of it may be reproduced or used for any purpose
without prior written authorization from Blackstone Audio Incorporated.
If you would like to obtain a complete catalog of our titles
or our monthly update telling you about new releases
and our new collection of books on CD and MP3 CD,
call 1-800-SAY-BOOK.
That's 1-800-729-2665.
