4.
System Reset Being Unreasonable and Unambiguous
Could you tell me please which way I ought to go from here?
That depends a good deal on where you want to get to, said the cat.
I don't much care where, said Alice.
Then it doesn't matter which way you go, said the cat.
Lewis Carroll, Alice in Wonderland.
The reasonable man adapts himself to the world.
The unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself.
Therefore, all progress depends on the unreasonable man.
George Bernard Shaw, Maxims for Revolutionists.
Spring, 2005, Princeton, New Jersey.
I had to bribe them.
What other choice did I have?
They formed a circle around me, and while the names differed,
the question was one and the same.
What's the challenge?
All eyes were on me.
My lecture at Princeton University had just
ended with excitement and enthusiasm.
At the same time, I knew that most students would go out
and promptly do the opposite of what I preached.
Most of them would be putting in 80-hour weeks
as high-paid coffee fetches unless I showed that the principles
from class could actually be applied.
Hence, the challenge.
I was offering a round-trip ticket anywhere in the world
to anyone who could complete an undefined challenge
in the most impressive fashion possible.
Results plus style.
I told them to meet me after class if interested,
and here they were, nearly 20 out of 60 students.
The task was designed to test their comfort zones
while forcing them to use some of the tactics I teach.
It was simplicity itself.
Contact three seemingly impossible-to-reach people,
J.Lo, Bill Clinton, J.D. Salinger.
I don't care.
And get at least one to reply to three questions.
Of 20 students all frothing at the mouth
to win a free spin across the globe,
how many completed the challenge?
Exactly none.
Not a one.
There were many excuses.
It's not that easy to get someone to.
I have a big paper due, and I would love to,
but there's no way I can.
There was but one real reason, however,
repeated over and over again in different words.
It was a difficult challenge, perhaps impossible,
and the other students would outdo them.
Since all of them overestimated the competition,
no one even showed up.
According to the rules I had set,
if someone had sent me no more than an illegible one paragraph
response, I would have been obligated to give them
the prize.
This result both fascinated and depressed me.
The following year, the outcome was quite different.
I told the above cautionary tale,
and six out of 17 finished the challenge in less than 48 hours.
Was the second class better?
No.
In fact, there were more capable students in the first class,
but they did nothing.
Firepower up the wazoo and no trigger finger.
The second group just embraced what
I told them before they started, which was step one.
D is for definition.
Doing the unrealistic is easier than doing the realistic.
From contacting billionaires to rubbing elbows
with celebrities, the second group of students did both.
It's as easy as believing it can be done.
It's lonely at the top.
99% of people in the world are convinced
they are incapable of achieving great things,
so they aim for the mediocre.
The level of competition is thus fiercest for realistic goals,
paradoxically making them the most time and energy consuming.
It is easier to raise $10 million than it is $1 million.
It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10
in the bar than the five eights.
If you are insecure, guess what?
The rest of the world is too.
Do not overestimate the competition
and underestimate yourself.
You are better than you think.
Unreasonable and unrealistic goals
are easier to achieve for yet another reason.
Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion
that provides the endurance to overcome
the inevitable trials and tribulations that
go along with any goal.
Realistic goals, goals restricted
to the average ambition level, are uninspiring
and will only fuel you through the first or second problem,
at which point you throw in the towel.
If the potential payoff is mediocre or average,
so is your effort.
I'll run through walls to get a catamaran
trip through the Greek islands, but I might not
change my brand of cereal for a weekend
trip through Columbus, Ohio.
If I choose the latter because it is realistic,
I won't have the enthusiasm to jump even the smallest
hurdle to accomplish it.
With beautiful crystal clear Greek waters
and delicious wine on the brain, I'm
prepared to do battle for a dream that is worth dreaming.
Even though their difficulty of achievement
on a scale of 1 to 10 appears to be a 10 and a 2,
respectively, Columbus is more likely to fall through.
The fishing is best where the fewest go,
and the collective insecurity of the world
makes it easy for people to hit home runs while everyone else
is aiming for base hits.
There is just less competition for bigger goals.
Doing big things begins with asking for them properly.
What do you want?
A better question, first of all.
Most people will never know what they want.
I don't know what I want.
If you ask me what I want to do in the next five months
for language learning, on the other hand, I do know.
It's a matter of specificity.
What do you want is too imprecise
to produce a meaningful and actionable answer.
Forget about it.
What are your goals is similarly fated
for confusion and guesswork.
To rephrase the question, we need
to take a step back and look at the bigger picture.
Let's assume we have 10 goals and we achieve them.
What is the desired outcome that makes all the effort worthwhile?
The most common response is what I also
would have suggested five years ago, happiness.
I no longer believe this is a good answer.
Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine
and has become ambiguous through overuse.
There is a more precise alternative
that reflects what I believe the actual objective is.
Bear with me.
What is the opposite of happiness?
Sadness?
No.
Just as love and hate are two sides of the same coin,
so are happiness and sadness.
Crying out of happiness is a perfect illustration of this.
The opposite of love is indifference.
And the opposite of happiness is, here's the clincher, boredom.
Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness.
And it is precisely what you should strive to chase.
It is the cure-all.
When people suggest you follow your passion or your bliss,
I propose that they are, in fact, referring
to the same singular concept, excitement.
This brings us full circle.
The question you should be asking
isn't what do I want or what are my goals,
but what would excite me?
Adult Onset ADD, Adventure Deficit Disorder.
Somewhere between college graduation and your second job,
a chorus enters your internal dialogue.
Be realistic and stop pretending.
Life isn't like the movies.
If you're five years old and say you want to be an astronaut,
your parents tell you that you can be anything you want to be.
It's harmless, like telling a child that Santa Claus exists.
If you're 25 and announce you want to start a new circus,
the response is different.
Be realistic.
Become a lawyer or an accountant or a doctor.
Have babies and raise them to repeat the cycle.
If you do manage to ignore the doubters
and start your own business, for example, ADD doesn't disappear.
It just takes a different form.
When I started BrainQuicken LLC in 2001,
it was with a clear goal in mind.
Make $1,000 per day whether I was banging my head on a laptop
or cutting my toenails on the beach.
It was to be an automated source of cash flow.
If you look at my chronology, it is obvious
that this didn't happen until a meltdown forced it,
despite the requisite income.
Why?
The goal wasn't specific enough.
I hadn't defined alternate activities that would
replace the initial workload.
Therefore, I just continued working,
even though there was no financial need.
I needed to feel productive and had no other vehicles.
This is how most people work until death.
I'll just work until I have X dollars and then do what I want.
If you don't define the what I want alternate activities,
the X figure will increase indefinitely
to avoid the fear-inducing uncertainty of this void.
This is when both employees and entrepreneurs
become fat men in red BMWs.
The Fat Man in the Red BMW Convertible.
There have been several points in my life, among them
just before I was fired from TrueSan
and just before I escaped the United States
to avoid taking an Uzi into McDonald's,
at which I saw my future as another fat man
in a midlife crisis BMW.
I simply looked at those who were 15 to 20 years ahead of me
on the same track, whether a director of sales
or an entrepreneur in the same industry,
and it scared the hell out of me.
It was such an acute phobia and such a perfect metaphor
for the sum of all fears that it became a pattern interrupt
between myself and fellow lifestyle designer
and entrepreneur Douglas Price.
Doug and I traveled parallel paths for nearly five years,
facing the same challenges and self-doubts
and thus keeping a close psychological eye on each other.
Our down periods seemed to alternate,
making us a good team.
Whenever one of us began to set our sights lower,
lose faith, or accept reality,
the other would chime in via phone or email
like an AA sponsor.
Dude, are you turning into the bald fat man
in the red BMW convertible?
The prospect was terrifying enough
that we always got our asses and priorities
back on track immediately.
The worst that could happen wasn't crashing and burning.
It was accepting terminal boredom
as a tolerable status quo.
Remember, boredom is the enemy,
not some abstract failure.
Correcting course, get unrealistic.
There is a process that I have used and still use
to reignite life or correct course
when the fat man in the BMW rears his ugly head.
In some form or another, it is the same process used
by the most impressive NR I have met around the world,
dreamlining.
Dreamlining is so named because it applies timelines
to what most would consider dreams.
It is much like goal setting,
but differs in several fundamental respects.
One, the goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps.
Two, the goals have to be unrealistic to be effective.
Three, it focuses on activities
that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed.
Living like a millionaire requires doing interesting things
and not just owning enviable things.
Now it's your turn to think big.
Q and A, questions and actions.
The existential vacuum manifests itself mainly
in a state of boredom.
Viktor Frankl, Auschwitz survivor
and founder of Logotherapy, Man's Search for Meaning.
Life is too short to be small, Benjamin Disraeli.
Dreamlining will be fun and it will be hard.
The harder it is, the more you need it.
To save time, I recommend using the automatic calculators
and forms at www.4hourworkweek.com
as you complete the following steps.
One, what would you do if there were no way
you could fail if you were 10 times smarter
than the rest of the world?
Create two timelines, six months and 12 months
and list up to five things you dream of having,
including but not limited to material wants,
house, car, clothing, et cetera.
Being, be a great cook, be fluent in Chinese, et cetera.
And doing, visiting Thailand, tracing your roots overseas,
racing ostriches, et cetera, in that order.
If you have difficulty identifying what you want
in some categories, as most will,
consider what you hate or fear in each
and write down the opposite.
Do not limit yourself and do not concern yourself
with how these things will be accomplished.
For now, it's unimportant.
This is an exercise in reversing repression.
Be sure not to judge or fool yourself.
If you really want a Ferrari,
don't put down solving world hunger out of guilt.
For some, the dream will be fame.
For others, fortune or prestige.
All people have their vices and insecurities.
If something will improve your feeling of self-worth,
put it down.
I have a racing motorcycle and quite apart
from the fact that I love speed,
it just makes me feel like a cool dude.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Put it all down.
Two, drawing a blank.
For all their bitching about what's holding them back,
most people have a lot of trouble coming up
with the defined dreams they're being held from.
This is particularly true with the doing category.
In that case, consider these questions.
A, what would you do day to day
if you had $100 million in the bank?
B, what would make you most excited
to wake up in the morning to another day?
Don't rush.
Think about it for a few minutes.
If still blocked, fill in the five doing spots
with the following.
One place to visit.
One thing to do before you die.
A memory of a lifetime.
One thing to do daily.
One thing to do weekly.
One thing you've always wanted to learn.
Three, what does being entail doing?
Convert each being into a doing to make it actionable.
Identify an action that would characterize
this state of being or a task
that would mean you had achieved it.
People find it easier to brainstorm being first,
but this column is just a temporary holding spot
Here are a few examples.
Great cook.
Make Christmas dinner without help.
Fluent in Chinese.
Have a five minute conversation with a Chinese coworker.
What are the four dreams that would change it all?
Using the six month timeline,
star or otherwise highlight the four most exciting
and or important dreams from all columns.
Repeat the process with the 12 month timeline if desired.
Five, determine the cost of these dreams
and calculate your target monthly income, TMI,
for both timelines.
If financeable, what is the cost per month
for each of the four dreams?
Rent, mortgage, payment plan, installments, et cetera.
Start thinking of income and expense
in terms of monthly cash flow.
Dollars in and dollars out instead of grand totals.
Things often cost much, much less than expected.
For example, a Lamborghini Gallardo Spider
fresh off the showroom floor at $260,000
can be had for $2,897.80 per month.
I found my personal favorite,
an Aston Martin DB9 with 1,000 miles on it
through eBay for $136,000, $2,003.10 per month.
How about a round the world trip?
Los Angeles, Tokyo, Singapore, Bangkok, Delhi or Bombay,
London, Frankfurt, Los Angeles for $1,399.
For some of these costs, the tools and tricks
at the end of chapter 14 will help.
Last, calculate your target monthly income, TMI,
for realizing these dream lines.
This is how to do it.
First, total each of the columns A, B, and C,
counting only the four selected dreams.
Some of these column totals could be zero, which is fine.
Next, add your total monthly expenses times 1.3.
The 1.3 represents your expenses
plus a 30% buffer for safety or savings.
This grand total is your TMI
and the target to keep in mind for the rest of the book.
I like to further divide this TMI by 30
to get my TDI, target daily income.
I find it easier to work with a daily goal.
Online calculators on our companion site
do all the work for you and make this step a cinch.
Go to www.4hourworkweek.com
for large printable worksheets and online calculators.
Chances are that the figure is lower than expected
and it often decreases over time
as you trade more and more having
for once in a lifetime doing.
Mobility encourages this trend.
Even if the total is intimidating, don't fret in the least.
I have helped students get to more than $10,000 per month
in extra income within three months.
Six, determine three steps for each of the four dreams
in just the six month timeline
and take the first step now.
I'm not a big believer in long term planning
and far off goals.
In fact, I generally set three month
and six month dream lines.
The variables change too much
and in the future distance becomes an excuse
for postponing action.
The objective of this exercise isn't therefore
to outline every step from start to finish
but to define the end goal,
the required vehicle to achieve them, TMI, TDI,
and build momentum with critical first steps.
From that point, it's a matter of freeing time
and generating the TMI which the following chapters cover.
First, let's focus on those critical first steps.
Define three steps for each dream
that will get you closer to its actualization.
Set actions, simple, well-defined actions for now.
Tomorrow, complete before 11 a.m.
and the day after, again, completed before 11 a.m.
Once you have three steps for each of the four goals,
complete the three actions in the now column.
Do it now.
Each should be simple enough to do in five minutes or less.
If not, ratchet it down.
If it's the middle of the night
and you can't call someone, do something else now
such as send an email and set the call
for first thing tomorrow.
If the next stage is some form of research,
get in touch with someone who knows the answer
instead of spending too much time in books or online
which can turn into paralysis by analysis.
The best first step, the one I recommend,
is finding someone who's done it
and ask for advice on how to do the same.
It's not hard.
Other options include setting a meeting or phone call
with a trainer, mentor, or salesperson to build momentum.
Can you schedule a private class
or a commitment that you'll feel bad about canceling?
Use guilt to your advantage.
Tomorrow becomes never.
No matter how small the task, take the first step now.
Comfort challenge.
The most important actions are never comfortable.
Fortunately, it is possible to condition yourself
to discomfort and overcome it.
I've trained myself to propose solutions
instead of ask for them,
to elicit desired responses instead of react,
and to be assertive without burning bridges.
To have an uncommon lifestyle,
you need to develop the uncommon habit of making decisions
both for yourself and for others.
From this chapter forward,
I'll take you through progressively
more uncomfortable exercises, simple and small.
Some of the exercises will appear deceptively easy
and even irrelevant, such as the next, until you try them.
Look at it as a game and expect some butterflies and sweat.
That's the whole point.
For most of these exercises, the duration is two days.
Mark the exercise of the day on your calendar
so you don't forget and don't attempt
more than one comfort challenge at a time.
Remember, there is a direct correlation
between an increased sphere of comfort
and getting what you want.
Here we go.
Learn to eye gaze, two days.
My friend Michael Ellsberg invented a singles event
called eye gazing.
It is similar to speed dating,
but different in one fundamental respect.
No speaking is permitted.
It involves gazing into the eyes of each partner
for three minutes at a time.
If you go to such an event,
it becomes clear how uncomfortable
most people are doing this.
For the next two days, practice gazing into the eyes
of others, whether people you pass on the street
or conversational partners, until they break contact.
Hints.
One, focus on one eye and be sure to blink occasionally
so you don't look like a psychopath
or get your ass kicked.
Two, in conversation, maintain eye contact
when you are speaking.
It's easy to do while listening.
Three, practice with people bigger
or more confident than yourself.
If a passerby asks you what the hell you're staring at,
just smile and respond, sorry about that,
I thought you were an old friend of mine.
Step two, E is for elimination.
One does not accumulate, but eliminate.
It is not daily increase, but daily decrease.
The height of cultivation always runs to simplicity.
Bruce Lee.
Chapter five, the end of time management.
Illusions and Italians.
Perfection is not when there is no end to it.
There is no more to add, but no more to take away.
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry,
pioneer of international postal flight
and author of Le Petit Prince, The Little Prince.
It is vain to do with more what can be done with less.
William of Ockham, 1300 to 1350,
originator of Ockham's razor.
Just a few words on time management.
Forget all about it.
In the strictest sense, you shouldn't be trying
to do more in each day, trying to fill every second
with a work fidget of some type.
It took me a long time to figure this out.
I used to be very fond of the results by volume approach.
Being busy is most often used as a guise
for avoiding the few critically important
but uncomfortable actions.
The options are almost limitless for creating busy-ness.
You could call a few hundred unqualified sales leads,
reorganize your outlook contacts,
walk across the office to request documents
you don't really need or fuss with your BlackBerry
for a few hours when you should be prioritizing.
In fact, if you wanna move up the ladder
in most of corporate America
and assuming they don't really check what you were doing,
let's be honest, just run around the office
holding a cell phone to your head and carrying papers.
Now that is one busy employee.
Give them a raise.
Unfortunately for the NR,
this behavior won't get you out of the office
or put you on an airplane to Brazil.
Bad dog.
Hit yourself with a newspaper and cut it out.
After all, there is a far better option
and it will do more than simply increase your results.
It will multiply them.
Believe it or not, it is not only possible
to accomplish more by doing less, it is mandatory.
Enter the world of elimination.
How you will use productivity.
Now that you have defined what you want to do
with your time, you have to free that time.
The trick, of course, is to do so
while maintaining or increasing your income.
The intention of this chapter
and what you will experience if you follow the instructions
is an increase in personal productivity
between 100 and 500%.
The principles are the same
for both employees and entrepreneurs,
but the purpose of this increased productivity
is completely different.
First, the employee.
The employee is increasing productivity
to increase negotiating leverage
for two simultaneous objectives,
pay raises and a remote working arrangement.
Recall that as indicated in the first chapter of this book,
the general process of joining the new rich
is D-E-A-L in that order,
but that employees intent on remaining employees for now
need to implement the process as D-E-L-A.
The reason relates to environment.
They need to liberate themselves
from the office environment
before they can work 10 hours a week, for example,
because the expectation in that environment
is that you will be in constant motion from nine to five.
Even if you produce twice the results you had in the past,
if you're working a quarter of the hours of your colleagues,
there is a good chance of receiving a pink slip.
Even if you work 10 hours a week
and produce twice the results of people working 40,
the collective request will be work 40 hours a week
and produce eight times the results.
This is an endless game and one you want to avoid,
hence the need for liberation first.
If you're an employee,
this chapter will increase your value
and make it more painful for the company to fire you
than to grant raises and a remote working agreement.
That is your goal.
Once the latter is accomplished,
you can drop hours without bureaucratic interference
and use the resultant free time to fulfill dream lines.
The entrepreneur's goals are less complex
as he or she is generally the direct beneficiary
of increased profit.
The goal is to decrease the amount of work you perform
while increasing revenue.
This will set the stage for replacing yourself
with automation, which in turn permits liberation.
For both tracks, some definitions are in order.
Being effective versus being efficient.
Effectiveness is doing the things
that get you closer to your goals.
Efficiency is performing a given task
whether important or not
in the most economical manner possible.
Being efficient without regard to effectiveness
is the default mode of the universe.
I would consider the best door-to-door salesperson efficient,
that is, refined and excellent at selling door-to-door
without wasting time, but utterly ineffective.
He or she would sell more using a better vehicle
such as email or direct mail.
This is also true for the person who checks email
30 times per day and develops an elaborate system
of folder rules and sophisticated techniques
for ensuring that each of those 30 brain farts
moves as quickly as possible.
I was a specialist at such professional wheel spinning.
It is efficient on some perverse level,
but far from effective.
Here are two truisms to keep in mind.
One, doing something unimportant well
does not make it important.
Two, requiring a lot of time does not make a task important.
From this moment forward, remember this.
What you do is infinitely more important than how you do it.
Efficiency is still important, but it is useless
unless applied to the right things.
To find the right things, we'll need to go to the garden.
Pareto and his garden, 80-20, and freedom from futility.
What gets measured gets managed.
Peter Drucker, management theorist, author of 31 books,
recipient of Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Four years ago, an economist changed my life forever.
It's a shame I never had a chance to buy him a drink.
My dear Vilfredo died almost 100 years ago.
Vilfredo Pareto was a wily and controversial
economist cum sociologist who lived from 1848 to 1923.
An engineer by training, he started his varied career
managing coal mines and later succeeded Leon Valra
as the chair of political economy
at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland.
His seminal work, Cours d'Economie Politique,
included a then little explored law of income distribution
that would later bear his name, Pareto's Law,
or the Pareto Distribution.
In the last decade, also popularly called
the 80-20 principle.
The mathematical formula he used to demonstrate
a grossly uneven but predictable distribution
of wealth in society, 80% of the wealth and income
was produced and possessed by 20% of the population,
also applied outside of economics.
Indeed, it could be found almost everywhere.
80% of Pareto's garden peas were produced by 20%
of the pea pods he had planted, for example.
Pareto's Law can be summarized as follows.
80% of the outputs result from 20% of the inputs.
Alternative ways to phrase this,
depending on the context, include 80% of the consequences
of the inflow from 20% of the causes,
80% of the results come from 20% of the effort and time,
80% of company profits come from 20%
of the products and customers, 80% of all stock market gains
are realized by 20% of the investors
and 20% of an individual portfolio.
The list is infinitely long and diverse,
and the ratio is often skewed even more severely.
90-10, 95-5, and 99-1 are not uncommon,
but the minimum ratio to seek is 80-20.
When I came across Pareto's work one late evening,
I had been slaving away with 15-hour days,
seven days per week, feeling completely overwhelmed
and generally helpless.
I would wake up before dawn
to make calls to the United Kingdom,
handle the United States during the normal nine to five day,
and then work until near midnight making calls
to Japan and New Zealand.
I was stuck on a runaway freight train with no brakes,
shoveling coal into the furnace for lack of a better option.
Faced with certain burnout
or giving Pareto's ideas a trial run,
I opted for the latter.
The next morning, I began a dissection of my business
and personal life through the lenses of two questions.
What 20% of sources are causing 80%
of my problems and unhappiness?
What 20% of sources are resulting in 80%
of my desired outcomes and happiness?
For the entire day, I put aside everything seemingly urgent
and did the most intense truth-bearing analysis possible,
applying these questions to everything from my friends
to customers and advertising to relaxation activities.
Don't expect to find you're doing everything right.
The truth often hurts.
The goal is to find your inefficiencies
in order to eliminate them
and to find your strengths to multiply them.
In the 24 hours that followed,
I made several simple but emotionally difficult decisions
that literally changed my life forever
and enabled the lifestyle I now enjoy.
The first decision I made is an excellent example
of how dramatic and fast the ROI
of this analytical fat cutting can be.
I stopped contacting 95% of my customers and fired 2%,
leaving me with the top 3% of producers
to profile and duplicate.
Out of more than 120 wholesale customers,
a mere 5 were bringing in 95% of the revenue.
I was spending 98% of my time chasing the remainder
as the aforementioned 5 ordered regularly
without any follow-up calls, persuasion, or cajoling.
In other words, I was working because I felt
as though I should be doing something from 9 to 5.
I didn't realize that working every hour
from 9 to 5 isn't the goal.
It's simply the structure most people use,
whether it's necessary or not.
I had a severe case of work for work, W4W,
the most hated acronym in the NR vocabulary.
All, and I mean 100% of my problems and complaints
came from this unproductive majority,
with the exception of two large customers
who were simply world-class experts
of the here is the fire I started,
now you put it out approach to business.
I put all of these unproductive customers on passive mode.
If they ordered, great, let them fax in the order.
If not, I would do absolutely no chasing,
no phone calls, no email, nothing.
That left the two larger customers to deal with
who were professional ball breakers,
but contributed about 10% to the bottom line at the time.
You'll always have a few of these,
and it is a quandary that causes all sorts of problems,
not the least of which are self-hatred and depression.
Up to that point, I had taken their brow-beating insults,
time-consuming arguments, and tirades
as a cost of doing business.
I realized during the 80-20 analysis
that these two people were the source
of nearly all my unhappiness and anger throughout the day,
and it usually spilled over into my personal time,
keeping me up at night with the usual
I should have said X, Y, and Z to that penis,
self-flagellation.
I finally concluded the obvious,
the effect on my self-esteem and state of mind
just wasn't worth the financial gain.
I didn't need the money for any precise reason,
and I had assumed I needed to take it.
The customers are always right, aren't they?
Part of doing business, right?
Hell no, not for the NR, anyway.
I fired their asses and enjoyed every second of it.
The first conversation went like this.
Customer, what the bleep?
I ordered two cases, and they arrived two days late.
Note, he had sent the order to the wrong person
via the wrong medium, despite repeated reminders.
You guys are the most disorganized bunch of idiots
I've ever worked with.
I have 20 years of experience in this industry,
and this is the worst, any NR, in this case, me.
I will kill you.
Be afraid.
Be very afraid.
I wish.
I did rehearse that a million times in my mental theater,
but it actually went something more like this.
I'm sorry to hear that.
You know, I've been taking your insults for a while now,
and it's unfortunate that it seems
we won't be able to do business anymore.
I'd recommend you take a good look
at where this unhappiness and anger is actually coming from.
In any case, I wish you well.
If you would like to order product,
we'll be happy to supply it,
but only if you can conduct yourself without profanity
and unnecessary insults.
You have our fax number.
All the best, and have a nice day.
Click.
I did this once via phone and once through email.
So what happened?
I lost one customer, but the other corrected course
and simply faxed orders again and again and again.
Problem solved, minimum revenue lost.
I was immediately 10 times happier.
I then identified the common characteristics
of my top five customers
and secured three or so similarly profiled buyers
in the following week.
Remember, more customers is not automatically more income.
More customers is not the goal
and often translates into 90% more housekeeping
and a paltry one to 3% increase in income.
Make no mistake, maximum income
from minimal necessary effort,
including minimum number of customers is the primary goal.
I duplicated my strengths, in this case, my top producers,
and focused on increasing the size and frequency
of their orders.
The end result?
I went from chasing and appeasing 120 customers
to simply receiving large orders from eight
with absolutely no pleading phone calls or email haranguing.
My monthly income increased from $30,000 to $60,000
in four weeks and my weekly hours immediately dropped
from over 80 to approximately 15.
Most important, I was happy with myself
and felt both optimistic and liberated
for the first time in over two years.
In the ensuing weeks, I applied the 80-20 principle
to dozens of areas, including the following.
One, advertising.
I identified the advertising
that was generating 80% or more of revenue,
identified the commonalities among them,
and multiplied them,
eliminating all the rest at the same time.
My advertising costs dropped over 70%
and my direct sales income nearly doubled
from a monthly $15,000 to $25,000 in eight weeks.
It would have doubled immediately
had I been using radio, newspapers, or television
instead of magazines with long lead times.
Two, online affiliates and partners.
I fired more than 250 low-yield online affiliates
or put them in holding patterns to focus instead
on the two affiliates who were generating 90% of the income.
My management time decreased from five to 10 hours per week
to one hour per month.
Online partner income increased more than 50%
in that same month.
Slow down and remember this.
Most things make no difference.
Being busy is a form of laziness,
lazy thinking, and indiscriminate action.
Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive
as doing nothing and is far more unpleasant.
Being selective, doing less, is the path of the productive.
Focus on the important few and ignore the rest.
Of course, before you can separate the wheat from the chaff
and eliminate activities in a new environment,
whether a new job or an entrepreneurial venture,
you will need to try a lot
to identify what pulls the most weight.
Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks.
That's part of the process,
but it should not take more than a month or two.
It's easy to get caught in a flood of minutiae
and the key to not feeling rushed is remembering
that lack of time is actually lack of priorities.
Take time to stop and smell the roses
or in this case, to count the pea pods.
The nine to five illusion and Parkinson's law.
I saw a bank that said 24-hour banking,
but I don't have that much time.
Stephen Wright, comedian.
If you're an employee, spending time on nonsense
is to some extent not your fault.
There is often no incentive to use time well
unless you are paid on commission.
The world has agreed to shuffle papers
between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.
And since you're trapped in the office
for that period of servitude,
you are compelled to create activities to fill that time.
Time is wasted because there is so much time available.
It's understandable.
Now that you have the new goal
of negotiating a remote work arrangement
instead of just collecting a paycheck,
it's time to revisit the status quo and become effective.
The best employees have the most leverage.
For the entrepreneur, the wasteful use of time
is a matter of bad habit and imitation.
I am no exception.
Most entrepreneurs were once employees
and come from the nine to five culture.
Thus, they adopt the same schedule,
whether or not they function at 9 a.m.
or need eight hours to generate their target income.
This schedule is a collective social agreement
and a dinosaur legacy of the results by volume approach.
How is it possible that all the people in the world
need exactly eight hours to accomplish their work?
It isn't.
Nine to five is arbitrary.
You don't need eight hours per day
to become a legitimate millionaire,
let alone have the means to live like one.
Eight hours per week is often excessive,
but I don't expect all of you to believe me just yet.
I know you probably feel as I did for a long time.
There just aren't enough hours in the day.
But let's consider a few things we can probably agree on.
Since we have eight hours to fill, we fill eight hours.
If we had 15, we would fill 15.
If we have an emergency
and need to suddenly leave work in two hours
but have pending deadlines,
we miraculously complete those assignments in two hours.
It is all related to a law that was introduced to me
by Ed Zhao in the spring of 2000.
I had arrived to class nervous and unable to concentrate.
The final paper worth a full 25% of the semester's grade
was due in 24 hours.
One of the options and that which I had chosen
was to interview the top executives of a startup
and provide an in-depth analysis of their business model.
The corporate powers that be had decided last minute
that I couldn't interview two key figures
or use their information due to confidentiality issues
and pre-IPO precautions.
Game over.
I approached Ed after class to deliver the bad news.
Ed, I think I'm going to need an extension on the paper,
I explained the situation.
And Ed smiled before he replied
without so much as a hint of concern.
I think you'll be okay.
Entrepreneurs are those who make things happen, right?
24 hours later and one minute before the deadline
as his assistant was locking the office,
I handed in a 30 page final paper.
It was based on a different company I had found,
interviewed and dissected with an intense all-nighter
and enough caffeine to get an entire Olympic track team
disqualified.
It ended up being one of the best papers
I'd written in four years and I received an A.
Before I left the classroom the previous day,
Ed had given me some parting advice.
Parkinson's law.
Parkinson's law dictates that a task will swell
in perceived importance and complexity
in relation to the time allotted for its completion.
It is the magic of the imminent deadline.
If I give you 24 hours to complete a project,
the time pressure forces you to focus on execution
and you have no choice but to do only the bare essentials.
If I give you a week to complete the same task,
it's six days of making a mountain out of a molehill.
If I give you two months, God forbid,
it becomes a mental monster.
The end product of the shorter deadline
is almost inevitably of equal or higher quality
due to greater focus.
This presents a very curious phenomenon.
There are two synergistic approaches
for increasing productivity that are inversions
of each other.
One, limit tasks to the important
to shorten work time, 80-20.
Two, shorten work time to limit tasks to the important.
Parkinson's law.
The best solution is to use both together.
Identify the few critical tasks that contribute
most to income and schedule them
with very short and clear deadlines.
If you haven't identified the mission critical tasks
and set aggressive start and end times for their completion,
the unimportant becomes the important.
Even if you know what's critical,
without deadlines that create focus,
the minor tasks forced upon you,
or invented in the case of the entrepreneur,
will swell to consume time until another bit of minutiae
jumps in to replace it,
leaving you at the end of the day with nothing accomplished.
How else could dropping off a package at UPS,
setting a few appointments and checking email
consume an entire nine to five day?
Don't feel bad.
I spent months jumping from one interruption to the next,
feeling run by my business instead of the other way around.
The 80-20 principle and Parkinson's law
are the two cornerstone concepts
that will be revisited in different forms
throughout this entire section.
Most inputs are useless and time is wasted
in proportion to the amount that is available.
Fat-free performance and time freedom
begins with limiting intake overload.
In the next chapter,
we'll put you on the real breakfast of champions,
the low information diet.
A dozen cupcakes and one question.
Love of bustle is not industry.
Seneca.
Mountain View, California.
Saturdays are my days off,
I offered to the crowd of strangers staring at me,
friends of a friend.
It was true.
Can you eat all bran and chicken seven days a week?
Me neither, don't be so judgmental.
Between my 10th and 12th cupcakes,
I plopped down on the couch to revel in the sugar high
until the clock struck midnight
and sent me back to my Adultsville Sunday Friday diet.
There was another party guest seated next to me on a chair
nursing a glass of wine,
not his 12th, but certainly not his first,
and we struck up a conversation.
As usual, I had to struggle to answer, what do you do?
And as usual, my answer left someone to wonder
whether I was a pathological liar or a criminal.
How is it possible to spend so little time
on income generation?
It's a good question.
It's the question.
In almost all respects, Charney had it all.
He was happily married with a two-year-old son
and another due to arrive in three months.
He was a successful technology salesman,
and though he wanted to earn $500,000 more per year,
as all do, his finances were solid.
He also asked good questions.
I had just returned from another trip overseas
and was planning a new adventure to Japan.
He drilled me for two hours with a refrain.
How is it possible to spend so little time
on income generation?
If you're interested, we can make you a case study
and I'll show you how, I offered.
Charney was in.
The one thing he didn't have was time.
One email and five weeks of practice later,
Charney had good news.
He had accomplished more in the last week
than he had in the previous four combined.
He did so while taking Monday and Friday off
and spending at least two more hours per day
with his family.
From 40 hours per week, he was down to 18
and producing four times the results.
Was it from mountaintop retreats
and secret kung fu training?
Nope.
Was it a new Japanese management secret
or better software, nine?
I just asked him to do one simple thing consistently
without fail.
At least three times per day at scheduled times,
he had to ask himself the following question.
Am I being productive or just active?
Charney captured the essence of this
with less abstract wording.
Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important?
He eliminated all of the activities he used as crutches
and began to focus on demonstrating results
instead of showing dedication.
Dedication is often just meaningless work in disguise.
Be ruthless and cut the fat.
It is possible to have your cupcake and eat it too.
Q and A, questions and actions.
We create stress for ourselves
because you feel like you have to do it.
You have to.
I don't feel that anymore.
Oprah Winfrey, actress and talk show host
The Oprah Winfrey Show.
The key to having more time is doing less
and there are two paths to getting there,
both of which should be used together.
One, define a short to do list
and two, define a not to do list.
Here are several hypothetical cases to help us get started.
One, if you had a heart attack
and you had to work two hours per day, what would you do?
Not five hours, not four hours, not three, two hours.
It's not where I want you to ultimately be,
but it's a start.
Besides, I can hear your brain bubbling already.
That's ridiculous, impossible.
I know, I know.
If I told you that you could survive for months
functioning quite well on four hours of sleep per night,
would you believe me?
Probably not.
Notwithstanding, millions of new mothers do it all the time.
This exercise is not optional.
The doctor has warned you after triple bypass surgery
that if you don't cut down your work to two hours per day
for the first three months of post-op, you will die.
How would you do it?
Two, if you had a second heart attack
and had to work two hours per week, what would you do?
Three, if you had a gun to your head
and had to stop doing four fifths
of different time-consuming activities,
what would you remove?
Simplicity requires ruthlessness.
If you had to stop four fifths of time-consuming activities,
email, phone calls, conversations, paperwork, meetings,
advertising, customers, suppliers, products,
services, et cetera, what would you eliminate
to keep the negative effect on income to a minimum?
Used even once per month,
this question alone can keep you sane and on track.
Four, what are the top three activities that I use
to fill time to feel as though I've been productive?
These are usually used to postpone more important actions,
often uncomfortable because there is a chance
of failure or rejection.
Be honest with yourself, as we all do this on occasion.
What are your crutch activities?
Five, learn to ask, if this is the only thing
I accomplished today, will I be satisfied with my day?
Don't ever arrive at the office or in front of your computer
without a clear list of priorities.
You'll just read unassociated email
and scramble your brain for the day.
Compile your to-do list for tomorrow
no later than this evening.
I don't recommend using Outlook or computerized to-do lists
because it is possible to add an infinite number of items.
I use a standard piece of paper folded three times
to about two inches by three and a half inches,
which fits perfectly in the pocket
and limits you to noting only a few items.
There should never be more than two mission critical items
to complete each day, never.
It just isn't necessary if they're actually high impact.
If you are stuck trying to decide between multiple items
that all seem crucial, as happens to all of us,
look at each in turn and ask yourself,
if this is the only thing I accomplished today,
will I be satisfied with my day?
To counter the seemingly urgent, ask yourself,
what will happen if I don't do this?
And is it worth putting off the important to-do it?
If you haven't already accomplished
at least one important task in the day,
don't spend the last business hour returning a DVD
to avoid a $5 late charge.
Get the important task done and pay the $5 fine.
Six, put a post-it on your computer screen
or set an Outlook reminder to alert you
at least three times daily with the question,
are you inventing things to do to avoid the important?
Seven, do not multitask.
I'm going to tell you what you already know.
Trying to brush your teeth, talk on the phone,
and answer email at the same time just doesn't work.
Eating while doing online research and instant messaging?
Ditto.
If you prioritize properly,
there is no need to multitask.
It is a symptom of task creep,
doing more to feel productive
while actually accomplishing less.
To repeat, you should have at most two primary goals
or tasks per day.
Do them separately from start to finish without distraction.
Divided attention will result in more frequent interruptions,
lapses in concentration,
poorer net results, and less gratification.
Eight, use Parkinson's Law on a macro and micro level.
Use Parkinson's Law to accomplish more in less time.
Shorten schedules and deadlines to force focused action
and prevent procrastination.
On a macro weekly and daily level,
attempt to leave work at 4 p.m.
and take Monday and or Friday off.
This will focus you to prioritize
and quite possibly develop a social life.
If you're under the hawk-like watch of a boss,
we'll discuss the nuts and bolts
of how to escape in later chapters.
On a micro task level,
limit the number of items on your to-do list
and use impossibly short deadlines
to force immediate action while ignoring minutiae.
Comfort challenge.
Learn to propose two days.
Stop asking for opinions and start proposing solutions.
Begin with the small things.
If someone is going to ask or asks,
where should we eat, what movie should we watch,
what should we do tonight, or anything similar,
do not reflect it back with, well, what do you want to?
Offer a solution.
Stop the back and forth and make a decision.
Practice this in both personal
and professional environments.
Here are a few lines that help.
My favorites are the first and last.
Can I make a suggestion?
I propose.
I'd like to propose.
I suggest that, what do you think?
Let's try and then try something else if that doesn't work.
Chapter six, the low information diet,
cultivating selective ignorance.
What information consumes is rather obvious.
It consumes the attention of its recipients.
Hence, a wealth of information creates a poverty
of attention and a need to allocate that attention
efficiently among the overabundance of information sources
that might consume it.
Herbert Simon, recipient of Nobel Memorial Prize
in Economics and the A.M. Turing Award,
the Nobel Prize of Computer Science.
Reading, after a certain age,
diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits.
Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little
falls into lazy habits of thinking.
Albert Einstein.
I hope you're sitting down.
Take that sandwich out of your mouth so you don't choke.
Cover the baby's ears.
I'm going to tell you something that upsets a lot of people.
I never watched the news,
and I have bought one single newspaper
in the last five years in Stansted Airport in London,
and only because it gave me a discount on a diet Pepsi.
I would claim to be Amish,
but last time I checked, Pepsi wasn't on the menu.
How obscene.
I call myself an informed and responsible citizen?
How do I stay up to date with current affairs?
I'll answer all of that,
but wait, it gets better.
I check business email for about an hour each Monday,
and I never check voicemail when abroad.
Never, ever.
But what if someone has an emergency?
It doesn't happen.
My contacts now know that I don't respond to emergencies,
so the emergencies somehow don't exist
or don't come to me.
Problems, as a rule, solve themselves or disappear
if you remove yourself as an information bottleneck
and empower others.
Cultivating selective ignorance.
There are many things of which a wise man
might wish to be ignorant.
Ralph Waldo Emerson, 1803 to 1882.
From this point forward, I'm going to propose
that you develop an uncanny ability
to be selectively ignorant.
Ignorance may be bliss, but it is also practical.
It is imperative that you learn to ignore or redirect
all information and interruptions that are irrelevant,
unimportant, or unactionable.
Most are all three.
The first step is to develop and maintain
a low-information diet.
Just as modern man consumes both too many calories
and calories of no nutritional value,
information workers eat data both in excess
and from the wrong sources.
Lifestyle design is based on massive action, output.
Increased output necessitates decreased input.
Most information is time-consuming, negative,
irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence.
I challenge you to look at whatever you read
or watched today and tell me that it wasn't
at least two of the four.
I read the front page headlines
through the newspaper machines as I walk to lunch
each day and nothing more.
In five years, I haven't had a single problem
due to this selective ignorance.
It gives you something new to ask the rest
of the population in lieu of small talk.
Tell me, what's new in the world?
And if it's that important,
you'll hear people talking about it.
Using my crib notes approach to world affairs,
I also retain more than someone who loses the forest
for the trees in a sea of extraneous details.
From an actionable information standpoint,
I consume a maximum of one-third of one industry magazine,
response magazine, and one business magazine,
ink, per month, for a grand total of approximately four hours.
That's it for results-oriented reading.
I read an hour of fiction prior to bed for relaxation.
How on earth do I act responsibly?
Let me give you an example of how I and other NR
both consider and obtain information.
I voted in the last presidential election
despite having been in Berlin.
I made my decision in a matter of hours.
First, I sent emails to educated friends in the United States
who share my values and asked them
who they were voting for and why.
Second, I judge people based on actions and not words.
Thus, I asked friends in Berlin who had more perspective
outside of U.S. media propaganda
how they judged the candidates
based on their historical behavior.
Last, I watched the presidential debates.
That was it.
I let other dependable people synthesize hundreds of hours
and thousands of pages of media for me.
It was like having dozens of personal information assistants
and I didn't have to pay them a single cent.
That's a simple example, you say,
but what if you need to learn to do something
your friends haven't done, like, say,
sell a book to the world's largest publisher
as a first-time author?
Funny you should ask.
There are two approaches I used.
One, I picked one book out of dozens
based on reader reviews and the fact that the authors
had actually done what I wanted to do.
If the task is how-to in nature,
I only read accounts that are how I did it
and autobiographical.
No speculators or wannabes are worth the time.
Two, using the book to generate intelligent
and specific questions,
I contacted 10 of the top authors and agents in the world
via email and phone with a response rate of 80%.
I only read the sections of the book
that were relevant to immediate next steps,
which took less than two hours.
To develop a template email and call script
took approximately four hours
and the actual emails and phone calls took less than an hour.
This personal contact approach is not only more effective
and more efficient than all-you-can-eat info buffets,
it also provided me with the major league alliances
and mentors necessary to sell this book.
Rediscover the power of the forgotten skill called talking.
It works.
Once again, less is more.
How to read 200% faster in 10 minutes.
There will be times when, it's true,
you will have to read.
Here are four simple tips that will lessen the damage
and increase your speed at least 200% in 10 minutes
with no comprehension loss.
One, two minutes.
Use a pen or finger to trace under each line
as you read as fast as possible.
Reading is a series of jumping snapshots called saccades
and using a visual guide prevents regression.
Two, three minutes.
Begin each line focusing on the third word in
from the first word and end each line focusing
on the third word in from the last word.
This makes use of peripheral vision
that is otherwise wasted on margins.
For example, even when the highlighted words
in the next line are your beginning and ending focal points,
the entire sentence is read just with less eye movement.
Once upon a time, an information addict decided to detox.
Move in from both sides further and further
as it gets easier.
Three, two minutes.
Once comfortable indenting three or four words
from both sides, attempt to take only two snapshots,
also known as fixations, per line on the first
and last indented words.
Four, three minutes.
Practice reading too fast for comprehension
but with good technique, the above three techniques,
for five pages prior to reading at a comfortable speed.
This will heighten perception and reset your speed limit,
much like how 50 miles per hour normally feels fast
but seems like slow motion if you drop down
from 70 miles per hour on the freeway.
To calculate reading speed in words per minute,
and thus progress in a given book,
add up the number of words in 10 lines and divide by 10
to get the average words per line.
Multiply this by the number of lines per page
and you have the average words per page.
Now it's simple.
If you initially read 1.25 pages in one minute
at 330 average words per page,
that's 412.5 words per minute.
If you then read 3.5 pages after training,
it's 1,155 words per minute
and you're in the top 1% of the world's fastest readers.
If interested in how people can read up to 12,719% faster,
visit www.pxmethod.com.
Q and A, questions and actions.
Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths
to inner peace.
Robert J. Sawyer, Calculating God.
One, go on an immediate one week media fast.
The world doesn't even hiccup much less end
when you cut the information umbilical cord.
To realize this, it's best to use the band-aid approach
and do it quickly.
A one week media fast.
Information is too much like ice cream to do otherwise.
Oh, I'll just have half a spoonful
is about as realistic as I just wanna jump online
for a minute.
Go cold turkey.
If you wanna go back to the 15,000 calorie
potato chip information diet afterward, fine.
But beginning tomorrow and for at least five full days,
here are the rules.
No newspapers, magazines, audio books, or non-music radio.
Music is permitted at all times.
No news websites whatsoever.
CNN.com, DrudgeReport.com, MSN.com, et cetera.
No television at all except for one hour
of pleasure viewing each evening.
No reading books except for this book
and one hour of fiction pleasure reading prior to bed.
As someone who read exclusively non-fiction
for nearly 15 years, I can tell you two things.
It's not productive to read two fact-based books
at the same time.
This is one.
And fiction is better than sleeping pills
for putting the happenings of the day behind you.
No web surfing at the desk unless it is necessary
to complete a work task for that day.
Necessary means necessary, not nice to have.
Unnecessary reading is public enemy number one
during this one-week fast.
What do you do with all the extra time?
Replace the newspaper at breakfast
with speaking to your spouse, bonding with your children,
or learning the principles in this book.
Between nine to five, complete your top priorities
as per the last chapter.
If you complete them with time to spare,
do the exercises in this book.
Recommending this book might seem hypocritical,
but it's not.
The information in these pages is both important
and to be applied now, not tomorrow or the day after.
Each day at lunch break and no earlier,
get your five-minute fix.
Ask a well-informed colleague or a restaurant waiter,
anything important happening in the world today?
I couldn't get the paper today.
Stop this as soon as you realize
that the answer doesn't affect your actions at all.
Most people won't even remember
what they spent one to two hours absorbing that morning.
Be strict with yourself.
I can prescribe the medicine, but you need to take it.
Two, develop the habit of asking yourself,
will I definitely use this information
for something immediate and important?
It's not enough to use the information for something.
It needs to be immediate and important.
If no, on either count, don't consume it.
Information is useless if it is not applied
to something important or if you will forget it
before you have a chance to apply it.
I used to have the habit of reading a book or site
to prepare for an event weeks or months in the future,
and I would then need to reread the same material
when the deadline for action was closer.
This is stupid and redundant.
Follow your to-do shortlist
and fill in the information gaps as you go.
Three, practice the art of non-finishing.
This is another one that took me a long time to learn.
Starting something doesn't automatically
justify finishing it.
If you are reading an article that sucks,
put it down and don't pick it back up.
If you go to a movie and it's worse
than the Matrix revolutions,
get the hell out of there before more neurons die.
If you're full after half a plate of ribs,
put the damn fork down and don't order dessert.
More is not better, and stopping something
is often 10 times better than finishing it.
Develop the habit of non-finishing,
that which is boring or unproductive
if a boss isn't demanding it.
Comfort challenge.
Get phone numbers, two days.
Being sure to maintain eye contact,
ask for the phone numbers of at least two,
the more you attempt, the less stressful it will be,
attractive members of the opposite sex on each day.
Ladies, this means you're in the game as well,
and it doesn't matter if you're 50 years old or older.
Remember that the real goal is not to get numbers,
but to get over the fear of asking,
so the outcome is unimportant.
If you're in a relationship,
just toss the numbers if you get them.
Go to a mall if you wanna get some rapid fire practice,
my preference for getting over the discomfort quickly,
and aim to ask three people in a row within five minutes.
Feel free to use some variations of the following script.
Excuse me, I know this is going to sound strange,
but if I don't ask you now,
I'll be kicking myself for the rest of the day.
I'm running to meet a friend,
i.e. I have friends and I am not a stalker,
but I think you're really extremely drop dead,
cute, gorgeous, hot.
Could I have your phone number?
I'm not a psycho, I promise.
You can give me a fake one if you're not interested.
This book is continued on disc three.

# touched on 2025-06-13T18:50:17.510850Z
# touched on 2025-06-13T18:50:40.620828Z