10. Income Autopilot 2. Testing the Muse.
Many of these theories have been killed off only when some decisive experiment exposed
their incorrectness. Thus, the yeoman work in any science is done by the
experimentalists who must keep the theoreticians honest. Michio Kaku,
theoretical physicist and co-creator of string field theory, Hyperspace.
Fewer than 5% of the 195,000 books published each year sell more than 5,000
copies. Teams of publishers and editors with decades of combined experience fail
than not. The founder of Borders Books lost $375 million of investor funding
with Webvan, a nationwide grocery delivery service. The problem? No one
wanted it. The moral is that intuition and experience are poor predictors of
which products and businesses will be profitable. Focus groups are equally
misleading. Ask 10 people if they would buy your product, then tell those who
said yes that you have 10 units in your car and ask them to buy. The initial
positive responses given by people who want to be liked and aim to please
become polite refusals as soon as real money is at stake. To get an accurate
indicator of commercial viability, don't ask people if they would buy, ask them
to buy. The response to the second is the only one that matters. The approach of
the NR reflects this. Step three, microtest your products. Microtesting
involves using inexpensive advertisements to test consumer
response to a product prior to manufacturing. It can be illegal to charge
customers prior to shipment, so we will not charge customers, but it is still
common practice. Why do so many commercials state allow three to four
weeks for delivery if it only takes three to five days for a shipment to get
from New York to California? It gives the company's time to manufacture product
and use customers credit card payments to finance it. Clever, but often against
the law. In the pre-internet era, this was done using small classified ads in
newspapers or magazines that led prospects to call a pre-recorded sales
message. Prospects would leave their contact information and based on the
number of callers or response to a follow-up sales letter, the product would
be abandoned or manufactured. In the internet era, there are better tools
that are both cheaper and faster. We'll test the product ideas from the last
chapter on Google AdWords, the largest and most sophisticated pay-per-click PPC
engine, in five days for $500 or less. PPC here refers to the highlighted search
results that are listed above and to the right of normal search results on Google.
Advertisers pay to have these ads displayed when people search for a
certain term related to the advertiser's product, such as cognitive supplement,
and are charged a small fee from five cents to over one dollar each time
someone clicks through to their site. For a good introduction to Google AdWords
and PPC, visit www.google.com forward slash online business. For expanded
examples of the following PPC strategies, including a full 90-day PPC marketing
visit www.4hourworkweek.com. The basic test process consists of three parts,
each of which is covered in this chapter.
Best. Look at the competition and create a more compelling offer on a basic
one to three page website, one to three hours. Test. Test the offer using short
Google AdWords advertising campaigns, three hours to set up and five days of
passive observation. Divest or invest. Cut losses with losers and manufacture the
winners for sales rollout. Let's use two people, Sherwood and Johanna, and their
two product ideas, French sailor shirts and a how-to yoga DVD for rock climbers
as case studies of what the testing steps look like and how you can do the same.
Sherwood bought a striped sailing shirt in France while traveling last summer
and upon returning to NYC has been continually approached by 20 to 30-year-old males on the
street who want to know where to get their own. Sensing an opportunity, he requests back
issues of NYC-based weekly magazines aimed at this demographic and calls the
manufacturer in France for pricing. He learns that he can purchase shirts at a wholesale
price of $20 that sell for $100 retail. He adds $5 per shirt to account for shipping
to the United States and arrives at a per-shirt cost of $25. It's not quite our ideal markup,
four times versus eight to ten times, but he wants to test the product regardless.
Johanna is a yoga instructor who has noticed her growing client base of rock climbers.
She is also a rock climber and is considering creating a yoga instructional DVD tailored to
that sport, which would include a 20-page spiral-bound manual and be priced at $80.
She predicts that production of a low-budget first edition of the DVD would cost nothing
more than a borrowed camera, one 90-minute digital tape, and a friend's iMac for simple
editing. She can burn small quantities of this first edition DVD, no menus, just straight
footage and titles, on the laptop and create labels with freeware from www.download.com.
She has contacted a duplication house and learned that more professional DVDs will cost $3 to $5 a
piece to duplicate in small quantities, minimum of $250, including cases. Now that they have
ideas and estimates of startup costs, what next? Besting the competition. First and foremost,
each product must pass a competitive litmus test. How can Sherwood and Johanna beat the
competition and offer a superior product or guarantee? One, Sherwood and Johanna Google
the top terms each would use to try and find their respective products. To come up with
related terms and derivative terms, both use search term suggestion tools. Overture,
HTTP colon forward slash forward slash inventory dot overture dot com forward slash d forward slash
search inventory forward slash suggestion. Google, HTTPS colon forward slash forward slash
adwords dot google dot com forward slash select forward slash main question mark CMD equals
keyword sandbox ask dot com www.ask.com. Type in one term and see narrow your search, expand your
search, and related terms on the right side. Both then visit the three websites that consistently
appear in top search and PPC positions. How can Sherwood and Johanna differentiate themselves?
Use more credibility indicators, media, academia, associations, and testimonials.
Create a better guarantee? Offer better selection? This applies to Sherwood and not Johanna.
Free or faster shipping? Sherwood notices that the shirts are often hard to find on the competitive
sites, all of which feature dozens of products, and the shirts are either made in the United States,
inauthentic, or shipped from France. Customers must wait two to four weeks. Johanna cannot find
a yoga for rock climbing DVD, so she is starting from a blank slate.
Two, Sherwood and Johanna now need to create a one page 300 to 600 words testimonial rich
advertisement that emphasizes their differentiators and product benefits using text and either personal
photos or stock photos from stock photo websites. Both have spent two weeks collecting advertisements
that have prompted them to make purchases or that have caught their attention in print or online.
These will serve as models. How did I come up with the most successful BodyQuick headline,
the fastest way to increase power and speed guaranteed? I borrowed it from the longest
running and thus most profitable Rosetta Stone headline, the fastest way to learn a language
guaranteed. Reinventing the wheel is expensive. Become an astute observer of what is already
working and adapt it. Johanna asks her clients for testimonials and Sherwood lets his friends
try on the shirts to get several for his page. Sherwood also asks the manufacturer for photos
and advertising samples. See www.pxmethod.com for a good example of how I have created a test page
using testimonials from seminar attendees. Free how-to seminars as recommended in the
expert builder are ideal for identifying popular selling points and securing testimonials.
Testing the advertisement. Sherwood and Johanna now need to test actual customer response to their
advertisements. Sherwood first tests his concept with a 48-hour eBay auction that includes his
advertising text. He sets the reserve, the lowest price he'll accept, for one shirt at $50 and
cancels the auction last minute to avoid legal issues since he doesn't have product to ship.
He has received bids up to $75 and decides to move to the next phase of testing.
Johanna doesn't feel comfortable with the apparent deception and skips this preliminary testing.
Sherwood's cost less than $5. Both find a low-cost provider such as www.bluehost.com
to host their soon-to-be one-page site. Bluehost includes one domain name with the hosting.
Sherwood chooses www.shirtsfromfrance.com and Johanna chooses www.yogaclimber.com.
For additional domain names Johanna uses the cheap domain registrar www.domainsinseconds.com.
Cost to both less than $40. Sherwood uses Dreamweaver to create his one-page site
advertisement and then creates two additional pages. If someone clicks on the purchase button
at the bottom of the first page it takes them to a second page with pricing shipping and handling
and basic contact fields to fill out including email and phone. Sherwood includes shipping
and handling prior to the final order page so that people don't finalize the order just to
confirm total pricing. He wants his orders to reflect real orders and not price checkers.
If the visitor presses continue with order it takes them to a page that states
Unfortunately we are currently on back order but we'll contact you as soon as we have product in
stock. Thank you for your patience. This structure allows him to test the first page ad and his
pricing separately. If someone gets to the last page it is considered an order. Johanna is not
comfortable with dry testing as Sherwood's approach is known even though it is legal if the billing
data isn't captured. She instead hires a designer from www.elance.com for $100 to create a single
web page with the content of her one-page ad and an email sign-up for a free top 10 tips list for
using yoga for rock climbing. She will consider 60 percent of the sign-ups as hypothetical orders.
Cost to both less than $150. Both set up simple google ad words campaigns with 50 to 100 search
terms to simultaneously test headlines while driving traffic to their pages. Their daily
budget limits are set at $50 per day. At this segue into PPC testing I recommend you first
visit www.google.com forward slash online business and then follow along by creating your own account
which should take about 10 minutes. It would be a waste of rainforests to use 10 pages to explain
terms that can be understood at a glance online. Sherwood and Johanna decide on the best search
terms by using the search term suggestion tools mentioned earlier. Both aim for specific terms
when possible. French sailor shirts versus French shirts. Yoga for sports versus yoga for higher
conversion rates. The percentage of visitors that purchase and lower cost per click CPC. They aim
also for second through fourth positioning but no more than 20 cents CPC. Sherwood will use
Google's free analytical tools to track orders and page abandonment rates. What percentage of
visitors leave the site from which pages. Johanna will use www.auber.com to track email sign-ups.
Since both Sherwood and Johanna are unsure of how to implement these tools they hire freelance web
programmers to set them up. Cost to both $100. Both Johanna and Sherwood design AdWords ads
that focus on their differentiators. Each Google AdWords ad consists of a headline and then two
lines of description neither of which can exceed 35 characters. In Sherwood's case he creates five
groups of 10 search terms each. The following are two of his ads. Sailor shirts from France. French
quality ship from US. Lifetime guarantee www.shirtsfromfrance.com. Real French sailor
shirts. French quality ship from US. Lifetime guarantee www.shirtsfromfrance.com. Johanna
creates the same five groups of 10 terms each and tests a number of ads including these. Yoga
for rock climbers DVD used by 512 climbers get flexible fast www.yogaclimber.com.
Yoga for rock climbers DVD used by 512 climbers get flexible fast www.yogaforsports.com.
Notice that these ads can be used to test not just headlines but guarantees product names and
domain names. It's as simple as creating several ads rotated automatically by Google that are
identical except for the one variable to be tested. How do you think I determined the best
title for this book? Both Sherwood and Johanna disable the feature on Google that serves only
the best performing ad. This is necessary to later compare the click through rates from each
and combine the best elements headline domain name and body text into a final ad. Last but not
least ensure that the ads don't trick prospects into visiting the site. The product offer should
be clear. Our goal is qualified traffic so we do not want to offer something free or otherwise
attract window shoppers or the curious who are unlikely to buy. Cost to both $50 or less per
day times five days equals $250. Keeping in mind that 100 specific terms at 10 cents per click
will perform better than 10 broad terms at one dollar per click the more you spend and thus the
more traffic you drive the more statistically valid the results will be. If budget permits
increase the number of related terms and daily expenditure so that the entire PPC test costs
500 to 1000 dollars. Investing or divesting five days later it's time to tally the results.
What can we consider a good click through and conversion rate? This is where the math
can be deceiving. If we're selling a $10,000 abominable snowman suit with an 80% profit margin
we obviously need a much lower conversion rate than someone who is selling a $50 DVD with a 70%
profit margin. For sophisticated tools and free spreadsheets that do all sorts of calculations for
you visit www.4hourworkweek.com. Johanna and Sherwood decide to keep it simple at this stage.
How much did they spend on PPC ads and how much did they sell? Johanna has done well. The traffic
wasn't enough to make the test stand up to statistical scrutiny but she spent about $200
on PPC and got 14 sign-ups for a free 10 tip report. If she assumes 60% would purchase that
means 8.4 people times $75 profit per DVD equals $630 in hypothetical total profit. This is also
not taking into account the potential lifetime value of each customer. The results of her small
test are no guarantee of future success but the indications are positive enough that she decides
to set up a Yahoo store for $99 per month and a small per transaction fee. Her credit isn't
excellent so she will opt to use www.paypal.com to accept credit cards online instead of approaching
her bank for a merchant account. This is a checking account for receiving credit card payments.
She emails the 10 tip report to those who signed up and asks for their feedback and recommendations
for content on the DVD. Ten days later she has a first attempt at the DVD ready to ship
and her store is online. Her sales to the original sign-ups cover costs of productions and she is
soon selling a respectable 10 DVDs per week $750 profit via Google AdWords and Overture,
the second largest PPC engine. She plans to test print advertising in niche magazines and now needs
to create an automation architecture to remove herself from the equation. Sherwood didn't fare
as well but still sees potential. He spent $150 on PPC and sold three shirts for a hypothetical $225
in profit. He had more than enough traffic but the bulk of visitors left the site on the pricing page.
Rather than drop pricing he decides to test a two times money back guarantee on the pricing page
which will enable customers to get a $200 refund if the $100 shirts aren't the most
comfortable they've ever owned. He retests and sells seven shirts for $525 in profit.
Based on these results he sets up a merchant account through his bank to process credit cards,
orders a dozen shirts from France and sells them all over the following 10 days. This gives him
enough profit to buy a small display ad at 50% off asking for a first time advertiser discount
and then citing a competing magazine to get another 20% off in a local weekly art magazine
in which he calls the shirt Jackson Pollock shirts. He orders two dozen more shirts with net
30 payment terms and puts a toll free number, set this up using services detailed at the end
of this chapter in the next, in the print ad that forwards to his cell phone. He does this instead
of using a website for two reasons. One, he wants to determine the most common questions for his
FAQ online and two, he wants to test an offer of $100 for one shirt, $75 in profit or buy two,
get one free, $200 minus $75 equals $125 profit. He sells all 24 shirts in the first five days
the magazine runs, most through the special offer, success. He redesigns the print ad putting answers
to common questions in the text to cut down on calls for information and decides to negotiate
a longer term ad agreement with the magazine. He sends his sales rep a check for four issues
at 30% of their published rates. He calls to confirm that they received his check via FedEx
and with check in hand and deadlines looming, they don't refuse. Sherwood wants to go to Berlin
during a two week break from his job which he is now considering quitting. How can he roll out
his success and escape his own company? He needs to build the architecture and get his mobile MBA.
That's where the next chapter comes in. New Rich Revisited. How Doug did it. Remember Doug from
prosoundeffects.com? How did he test the idea and go from zero dollars to ten thousand dollars per
month in the process? He followed these steps. One, market selection. He chose music and television
producers as his market because he is a musician himself and has used these products. Two, product
brainstorm. He chose the most popular products available for resale from the largest manufacturers
of sound libraries and arranged a wholesale purchase and drop ship agreement with them.
Many of these libraries cost well above three hundred dollars up to seventy five hundred dollars
and this is precisely why he needs to answer more customer service questions than someone with a
lower priced product of fifty to two hundred dollars. Three, micro testing. He auctioned the
products on eBay to test demand and the highest possible pricing before purchasing inventory.
He ordered product only when people placed orders from him and product shipped immediately from the
manufacturer's warehouses. Based on this demand confirmed on eBay, Doug created a Yahoo store with
these products and began testing Google AdWords and other PPC search engines. Four, rollout and
automation. Following this testing and upon generating sufficient cash flow, Doug began
experimenting with print advertising in trade magazines. Simultaneously he streamlined and
outsourced operations to reduce his time requirements from two hours per day to two hours per week.
Comfort challenge. Rejecting first offers and walking away. Three days. Before performing this
exercise, if possible, read the bonus chapter how to get seven hundred thousand dollars of
advertising for ten thousand dollars on our companion site and then set aside two hours on
a consecutive Saturday, Sunday and Monday. On Saturday and Sunday, go to a farmer's market or
other outdoor event where goods are sold. If this isn't possible, go to small independent retailers,
not chains or mass retail. Set a budget of one hundred dollars for your negotiating tuition and
look for items to purchase the total at least one hundred fifty dollars. Your job is to get
the sellers down to a total of one hundred dollars or less for the lot. It is better to practice on
many cheap items rather than a few big items. Be sure to reply to their first offer with what
type of discount can you offer to let them negotiate against themselves. Negotiate near
closing time. Choose your objective price bracket and make a firm offer with cash in hand for that
amount. See the online bonus chapter on www.4hourworkweek.com to understand all of these terms
in context. Practice walking away if your objective price isn't met. On Monday, call two magazines,
expect the first to be awkward and use the script on the companion site to negotiate
minus the last firm offer. Get them as low as possible and then call them back later to
indicate that your proposal was refused by upper management or otherwise vetoed.
This is the negotiating equivalent of paper trading. Paper trading refers to setting an
imaginary budget, purchasing stocks, writing their current values on a piece of paper,
and then tracking their performance over time to see how your investment would have done
had it been for real. It is a no-risk method for honing investment skills before putting
skin in the game. Get used to refusing offers and countering in person and, most importantly,
on the phone. Tools and Tricks. Sample Muse Test Page. The PX Method. www.pxmethod.com.
This sales template was used to determine the viability of a speed reading product,
which tested successfully. Notice how testimonials, credibility indicators,
and risk reversal guarantees are used and how the pricing is put on a separate page
so it can be isolated as a testing variable. Use this as a reference. It is a simple and
effective model that can be copied. Introduction to pay-per-click PPC advertising.
Google AdWords tutorial. www.google.com forward slash online business. Market sizing and keyword
suggestion tools. Overture. http colon forward slash forward slash inventory dot overture dot com
forward slash d forward slash search inventory forward slash suggestion. Google HTTPS colon
forward slash forward slash adwords dot google dot com forward slash select forward slash main
question mark cmd equal keyword sandbox word tracker www dot word tracker dot com
ask dot com www dot ask dot com type in one term and see alternative terms to write
brainstorm additional PPC search terms and determine the number of people who are
searching for them low cost domain registration domains in seconds www.domainsinseconds.com
i have close to 100 domains with this service joker www.joker.com inexpensive but dependable
hosting services go daddy www.godaddy.com one and one www.oneandone.com bluehost www.bluehost.com
rackspace www.rackspace.com known for dedicated and managed servers hosting.com www.hosting.com
known for dedicated and managed servers shared hosting solutions where your site is hosted
alongside other sites on a single server are so cheap that i recommend using two providers
one is a primary and one is a backup put your site pages on each host and sign up with www.no-ip.com
which can redirect traffic dns to the backup in five minutes instead of the usual 24 to 48 hours
free and paid stock photos free stock photos www.freestockphotos.com one of many stock photo
databases available on the web photos are available in categories ranging from animals to ancient
ruins for both personal and commercial use getty images www.getty.com this is where the pros go
stock photos and film of anything for a price i pay 150 to 400 dollars for most images i use
in national print campaigns and the quality is outstanding email sign up tracking and scheduled
auto responders aweber www.aweber.com end-to-end site solutions with payment processing
yahoo store http colon forward slash forward slash smallbusiness.yahoo.com forward slash e-commerce
866-781-9246 this is what doug used as little as 40 dollars per month with 1.5 percent per
transaction 24 seven support is excellent ebay store http colon forward slash forward slash
ebay.com forward slash storefronts forward slash start dot html prices range from 15 to 500 dollars
per month plus ebay fees simple payment processing for testing pages paypal cart www.paypal.com see
merchant accept credit card payments in minutes there are no monthly fees 1.9 to 2.9 percent
and 30 cents us per transaction google checkout http colon forward slash forward slash check out
dot google.com forward slash sell get 10 dollars in free processing for each one dollar spent on
adwords 2 percent and 20 cents per transaction thereafter this checkout option requires that
customers have a google id it is thus most useful as a supplement to one of the aforementioned
payment solutions software for understanding web traffic web analytics google analytics
www.google.com forward slash analytics click tracks www.clicktracks.com web trends www.webtrends.com
how are people finding browsing and leaving your site how many prospective customers are being
delivered by each ppc ad and which pages are most popular these programs tell you all this and more
google is free for most low volume sites and better than a lot of paid software and the others
cost 30 dollars and upward per month ab testing software offer matica www.offermatica.com
vertster.com www.vertster.com optimost www.optimost.com
testing is as you know the name of the game but testing all the variables can be confusing
how do you know which combination of headlines text and images on your home page results in the
most sales instead of using one version for a period and then alternating which is time consuming
use software that serves up different versions of your home page to prospects at random
and then does the math for you low cost toll free numbers toll free max www.tollfreemax.com
877-888-8MAX toll free max allows you to have your own toll free number
calls can be forwarded to any other numbers voicemail goes to your email address
checking competitive site traffic alexa www.alexa.com see how much traffic your
competition is getting and who is linking to them freelance designers and programmers
elance www.elance.com 877-435-2623 craigslist www.craigslist.org
11. Income Autopilot 3 MBA Management by Absence
The factory of the future will have only two employees a man and a dog the man will be there
to feed the dog the dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment
Warren G. Bennis University of Southern California professor of business administration
advisor to Ronald Reagan and John F. Kennedy most entrepreneurs don't start out with automation as
a goal this leaves them open to mass confusion in a world where each business guru contradicts the
next consider the following a company is stronger if it is bound by love rather than by fear if the
employees come first then they're happy Herb Kelleher co-founder of Southwest Airlines look
kitty I built this business by being a bastard I run it by being a bastard I'll always be a
bastard and don't you ever try to change me Charles Revson founder of Revlon to a senior executive
within his company hmm whom to follow if you are fast on your feet you'll notice that I just offered
you an either or option the good news is that as usual there is a third option the contradictory
advice you find in business books and elsewhere usually relates to managing employees how to
handle the human element herb tells you to give them a hug revson tells you to kick them in the
balls and I tell you to solve the problem by eliminating it all together remove the human
element once you have a product that sells it's time to design a self-correcting business
architecture that runs itself the remote control ceo the power of hiding ourselves from one another
is mercifully given for men or wild beasts and would devour one another but for this protection
henry ward beecher us abolitionist and clergyman proverbs from Plymouth pulpit
rural pennsylvania in a 200 year old stone farmhouse a quiet experiment in 21st century
leadership is proceeding exactly as planned steven mcdonnell is upstairs in his flip-flops
looking at a spreadsheet on his computer his company has increased its annual revenue 30
per year since it all began and he is able to spend more time with his three daughters
than he ever thought possible the experiment as ceo of applegate farms he insists on spending
just one day per week at the company headquarters in bridgewater new jersey he's not the only ceo
who spends time at home of course there are hundreds who have heart attacks or nervous
breakdowns and need time to recover but there is a huge difference mcdonnell has been doing it for
more than 17 years rarer still he started doing it just six months after founding the company
this intentional absence has enabled him to create a process driven instead of founder driven
business limiting contact with managers forces the entrepreneur to develop operational rules
that enable others to deal with problems themselves instead of calling for help this isn't just for
small operations applegate farms sells more than 120 organic and natural meat products to high-end
retailers and generates more than 35 million dollars in revenue per year it is all possible
because mcdonnell started with the end in mind behind the scenes the muse architecture
orders are nobody can see the great os not nobody not know how guardian of the emerald city gates
the wizard of oz starting with the end in mind an organizational map of what the eventual business
will look like is not new infamous deal maker wayne husinga copied the org chart of mcdonald's to
turn blockbuster into a billion dollar behemoth and dozens of titans have done much the same
in our case it's the end in mind that is different our goal isn't to create a business that is as
large as possible but rather a business that bothers us as little as possible the architecture
has to place us out of the information flow instead of putting us at the top of it i didn't
get this right the first time i tried in 2003 i was interviewed in my home office for a documentary
called as seen on tv we were interrupted every 20 to 30 seconds with beeping email notifications
im pings and ringing phones i couldn't leave them unanswered because dozens of decisions depended
on me if i didn't ensure the trains were running on time and put out the fires no one would
splitting the pie outsourcer economics each outsourcer takes a piece of the revenue pie
here is what the general profit loss might look like for a hypothetical 80 dollar product
sold via phone and developed with the help of an expert who is paid a royalty i recommend
calculating profit margins using higher than anticipated expenses this will account for
unforeseen costs read screw-ups and miscellaneous fees such as monthly reports etc revenue product
cost 80 shipping and handling 1295 total revenue 92 dollars 95 cents expenses product manufacturing
10 dollars call center 83 cents per minute times average call time of four minutes
three dollars 32 cents shipping five dollars 80 cents fulfillment one dollar 85 per package
plus 50 cents for boxes and packing two dollars 35 cents credit card processing
2.75 percent of 92 dollars 95 cents two dollars 56 cents returns plus declined cards
six percent of 92 dollars 95 cents five dollars 58 cents royalties five percent of wholesale price
of 48 dollars 80 dollars times point six two dollars 40 cents total expenses 32 dollars one
profit revenue minus expenses 60 dollars 94 cents how do you factor in advertising cost
if a one thousand dollar ad or one thousand dollars in ppc produces 50 sales my advertising
cost per order cpo is 20 dollars this makes the actual per unit profit 40 dollars 94 cents
i set a new goal after that experience and when i was interviewed six months later as a follow-up
one change was more pronounced than all others silence i had redesigned the business from the
ground up so that i had no phone calls to answer and no email to respond to i'm often asked how
big my company is how many people i employ full time the answer is one most people lose interest
at that point if someone were to ask me how many people run brain quicken llc on the other hand
the answer is different between 200 and 300 i am the ghost in the machine from advertisements print
in this example to a cash deposit in my bank account the diagram on the back of this audiobook
is what a simplified version of my architecture looks like including some sample costs if you
have developed a product based on the guidelines in the last two chapters it will plug into this
structure hand in glove where am i in the diagram nowhere i am not a toll booth through which
anything needs to pass i am more like a police officer on the side of the road who can step in
if need be and i use detailed reports from outsourcers to ensure the cogs are moving as
intended i check reports from fulfillment each monday and monthly reports from the same the first
of each month the latter reports include orders received from the call center which i can compare
to the call center bills to gauge profit otherwise i just check bank accounts online on the first and
15th of each month to look for odd deductions if i find something one email will fix it and if not
it's back to kendo painting hiking or whatever i happen to be doing at the time
removing yourself from the equation when and how the system is the solution at and t
the diagram on the back of this audiobook should be your rough blueprint for designing a self
sustaining virtual architecture there could be differences more or fewer elements but the main
principles are the same one contract outsourcing companies that specialize in one function versus
freelancers whenever possible so that if someone is fired quits or doesn't perform you can replace
them without interrupting your business hire trained groups of people who can provide detailed
reporting and replace one another as needed to ensure that all outsourcers are willing to
communicate among themselves to solve problems and give them written permission to make most
inexpensive decisions without consulting you first i started at less than one hundred dollars and
moved to four hundred dollars after two months how do you get there it helps to look at where
entrepreneurs typically lose their momentum and stall permanently most entrepreneurs begin
with the cheapest tools available bootstrapping and doing things themselves to get up and running
with little cash this isn't the problem in fact it's necessary so that the entrepreneurs can train
outsourcers later the problem is that these same entrepreneurs don't know when and how to replace
themselves or their homemade infrastructure with something more scalable by scalable i mean a
business architecture that can handle 10 000 orders per week as easily as it can handle 10 orders per
week doing this requires minimizing your decision-making responsibilities which achieves
our goal of time freedom while setting the stage for doubling and tripling income with no change
in hours worked call the companies at the end of the chapter to research costs plan and budget
accordingly to upgrade infrastructure at the following milestones which i measure in units
of product shipped phase one zero to 50 total units of product shipped do it all yourself put
your phone number on the site for both general questions and order taking this is important in
the beginning and take customer calls to determine common questions that you will answer later in an
online fact this fact will also be the main material for training phone operators in developing sales
scripts is ppc an offline advertisement or your website too vague or misleading thus attracting
unqualified and time consuming consumers if so change them to answer common questions
and make the product benefits including what it isn't or doesn't do clearer answer all email and
save your responses in one folder called customer service questions cc yourself on responses and
put the nature of the customers questions in the subject lines for future indexing personally pack
and ship all products to determine the cheapest options for both investigate opening a merchant
account from your local small bank easier to get than with a larger bank for later outsourced credit
card processing phase two 10 units shipped per week add the extensive fact to your website and
continue to add answers to common questions as received find local fulfillment companies in the
yellow pages under fulfillment services or mailing services if you cannot find one there or at
www.mfsanet.org call local printers and ask them for recommendations narrow the field to those
often the smallest who will agree not to charge you setup fees and monthly minimums if this isn't
possible ask for at least 50 off both and then request that the setup fee be applied as an
advance against shipping or their other fees limit the candidates further to those who can
respond to order status email ideal or phone calls from customers the email from your customer
service folder will be provided as copy and paste responses especially those related to
order status and refund requests sample email responses for fulfillment purposes can be found
at www.4hourworkweek.com to lower or eliminate miscellaneous fees explain that you are a startup
and that your budget is small tell them you need the cash for advertising that will drive more
shipments if needed mention the competitive companies that you are considering and pit them
against one another using lower pricing or concessions from one to get larger discounts
and bonuses from the other before making your final selection ask for at least three client
references and use the following to elicit the negatives i understand they're good but everyone
has weaknesses if you had to point out where you've had some issues and what they're not the best at
what would you say can you please describe an incident or a disagreement i expect these
with all companies so it's no big deal and it's confidential of course ask for net 30 terms
payment for services 30 days after they're rendered after one month of prompt payment
for their services it's easier to negotiate all of the above points with smaller operations that
need the business have your contract manufacturer ship product directly to the fulfillment house
once you have decided on one and put the fulfillment house's email you can use an
email address at your domain and forward it or phone number on the online thank you page
for order status questions phase three 20 units shipped per week now you will have the cash flow
to afford the setup fees and the monthly minimums that bigger more sophisticated outsources will
ask for call the end-to-end fulfillment houses that handle it all from order status to returns
and refunds interview them about costs and ask them for referrals to call centers and credit
card processors they've collaborated with for file transfers and problem solving don't assemble
an architecture of strangers there will be programming costs and mistakes both of which
are expensive set up an account with the credit card processor first for which you will need your
own merchant account this is critical as the fulfillment house can only handle refunds and
declined cards for transactions they process themselves through an outsourced credit card
processor optionally set up an account with one of the call centers your new fulfillment center
recommends these will often have toll-free numbers you can use instead of purchasing your own look at
the percentage split of online to phone orders during testing and consider carefully if the
extra revenue from the latter is worth the hassle it often isn't those who call to order will
generally order online if given no other option before signing on with the call center get several
800 numbers they answer for current clients and make test calls asking difficult product related
questions engaging sales abilities call each number at least three times morning afternoon
and evening and note the make or break factor wait time the phone should be answered within
three to four rings and if you are put on hold the shorter the wait the better more than 15
seconds will result in too many abandoned calls and waste advertising dollars the art of undecision
fewer options equals more revenue companies go out of business when they make the wrong decisions or
just as important make too many decisions the latter creates complexity mike maples co-founder
of motive communications ipo to 260 million dollar market cap founding executive of tivoli
sold to ibm for 750 million dollars and investor in companies such as dig.com
joseph sugarman is the marketing genius behind dozens of direct response and retail successes
including the blue blocker sunglasses phenomenon prior to his string of home runs on television
he sold 20 000 pairs of blue blockers within 15 minutes of his first qvc appearance his domain
was print media where he made millions and built an empire called js and a group he was once
recruited to design an advertisement for a manufacturer's watch line the manufacturer
wanted to feature nine different watches in the ad and joe recommended featuring just one the
client insisted and joe offered to do both and test them in the same issue of the wall street
journal the result the one watch offer outsold the nine watch offer six to one henry ford once
said referring to his model t the best-selling car of all time the customer can have any color
he wants so long as it's black he understood something that business people seem to have
forgotten serving the customer customer service is not becoming a personal concierge and catering to
their every whim and want customer service is providing an excellent product at an acceptable
price and solving legitimate problems lost packages replacements refunds etc in the fastest
manner possible that's it the more options you offer the customer the more indecision you create
and the fewer orders you receive it is a disservice all around furthermore the more options you offer
the customer the more manufacturing and customer service burden you create for yourself the art
of undecision refers to minimizing the number of decisions your customers can or need to make
here are a few methods that i and other nr have used to reduce service overhead 20 to 80 percent
one offer one or two purchase options basic and premium for example and no more two do not offer
multiple shipping options offer one fast method instead and charge a premium three do not offer
overnight or expedited shipping it is possible to refer them to a reseller who does as is true
with all of these points as these shipping methods will produce hundreds of anxious phone calls
four eliminate phone orders completely and direct all prospects to online ordering this
seems outrageous until you realize that success stories like amazon.com have depended on it as a
fundamental cost saver to survive and thrive five do not offer international shipments spending
10 minutes per order filling out customs forms and then dealing with customer complaints when
the product costs 20 to 100 percent more with tariffs and duties is about as fun as headbutting
a curb it's about as profitable too some of these policies hint at what is perhaps the biggest
time saver of all customer filtering not all customers are created equal once you reach
phase three and have some cash flow it's time to reevaluate your customers and thin the herd
there are good and bad versions of all things good food bad food good movies bad movies good
sex bad sex and yes good customers and bad customers decide now to do business with the
former and avoid the latter i recommend looking at the customer as an equal trading partner and not
as an infallible blessing of a human being to be pleased at all costs if you offer an excellent
product at an acceptable price it is an equal trade and not a begging session between subordinate
you and superior customer be professional but never kowtow to unreasonable people
instead of dealing with problem customers i recommend you prevent them from ordering in the
first place i know dozens of nr who don't accept western union or checks as payment some would
respond to this with you're giving up 10 to 15 percent of your sales the nr in turn would say
i am but i'm also avoiding the 10 to 15 percent of the customers who create 40 percent of the
expenses and eat 40 percent of my time it's classic 80 20 those who spend the least and ask for the
most before ordering will do the same after the sale cutting them out is both a good lifestyle
decision and a good financial decision low profit and high maintenance customers like to call
operators and spend up to 30 minutes on the phone asking questions that are unimportant or answered
online costing in my case 24 dollars 90 cents 30 times 83 cents per 30 minute incident eliminating
the miniscule profit they contribute in the first place those who spend the most complain the least
in addition to our premium 50 to 200 dollar pricing here are a few additional policies
that attract the high profit and low maintenance customers we want one do not accept payment via
western union checks or money order two raise wholesale minimums to 12 to 100 units and require
a tax id number to qualify resellers who are real business people and not time intensive novices
don't run a personal business school three refer all potential resellers to an online order form
that must be printed filled out and faxed in never negotiate pricing or approve lower pricing
for higher volume orders cite company policy due to having had problems in the past four offer low
priced products a la mris no2 book instead of free products to capture contact information for
follow-up sales offering something for free is the best way to attract time eaters and spend
money on those unwilling to return the favor five offer a lose win guarantee instead of free trials
six do not accept orders from common mail fraud countries such as nigeria make your customer base
an exclusive club and treat the members well once they've been accepted the lose win guarantee
how to sell anything to anyone if you want a guarantee buy a toaster clint eastwood the 30
day money back guarantee is dead it just doesn't have the pizzazz it once did if a product doesn't
work i've been lied to and will have to spend an afternoon at the post office to return it
this costs me more than just the price i paid for the product both in time and actual postage
risk elimination just isn't enough this is where we enter the neglected realm of lose win guarantees
and risk reversal the nr use what most consider an afterthought the guarantee as a cornerstone
sales tool the nr aim to make it profitable for the customer even if the product fails lose win
guarantees not only remove risk for the consumer but put the company at financial risk here are
a few examples of putting your money where your mouth is delivered in 30 minutes or less or it's
free domino's pizza built its business on this guarantee we're so confident that you'll like
cialis if you don't we'll pay for the brand of your choice the cialis promise program offers a
free sample of cialis and then offers to pay for competing products if cialis doesn't live up to
the hype if your car is stolen we'll pay 500 of your insurance deductible this guarantee helped
the club become the number one selling mechanical automobile anti-theft device in the world
110 guaranteed to work within 60 minutes of the first dose this was for body quick and a first
among sports supplements i offered to not only refund customers the price of the product if it
didn't work within 60 minutes of the first dose but also to send them a check for 10 percent more
the lose-win guarantee might seem like a big risk especially when someone can abuse it for profit
like in the body quick example but it isn't if your product delivers most people are honest
let's look at some actual numbers returns for body quick even with a 60-day return period and
partially because of it are less than three percent in an industry in which the average is 12 to 15
is 12 to 15 percent for a normal 30-day 100 money back guarantee sales increased more than
300 percent within four weeks of introducing the 110 percent guarantee and returns decreased
overall for the benefit of the customer and to capitalize on universal laziness me included
provide as much time as possible to consider or forget the product ginsu knives offered a
50-year guarantee can you offer a 60 90 or even 365 day guarantee gauge average return percentages
with a 30 or 60 day guarantee first for budgeting calculations and cash flow projections and then
extend it johanna adopted this lose-win offer and came up with an increased sports specific
flexibility 40 percent in two weeks or return it for a full refund including shipping and keep the
20-minute bonus dvd as our gift sure would found his guarantee as well if these shirts are not
the most comfortable you've ever worn return them and get two times your purchase price back
each shirt is also guaranteed for life if it gets threadbare send it back and we'll replace it free
of charge both of them increased sales more than 200 percent in the first two months return
percentage remained the same for johanna and increased 50 percent for sure would from two
to three percent disaster far from it instead of selling 50 and getting one back with a 100 percent
guarantee 50 times 100 minus 100 equals four thousand nine hundred dollars in revenue he sold
200 and got six back with the 200 percent guarantee 200 times 100 minus six times 200
equals $18,800 in revenue i'll take the latter lose win is the new win win stand out and reap the
rewards little blue chip how to look fortune 500 in 45 minutes are you tired of sand being
kicked in your face i promise you new muscles in days charles atlas strongman who sold more
than 30 million dollars worth of dynamic tension muscle courses through comic books
if approaching large resellers or potential partners small company size will be an obstacle
this discrimination is often as insurmountable as it is unfounded fortunately a few simple steps
can dramatically upgrade your budding fortune 500 image and take your muse from coffee shop
to boardroom in 45 minutes or less one don't be the ceo or founder being the ceo or founder screams
startup give yourself the mid-level title of vice president director or something similar that can
be added to depending on the occasion director of sales director of business management etc for
negotiation purposes as well remember that it is best not to appear to be the ultimate decision
maker to put multiple email and phone contacts on the website put various email addresses on
the contact us page for different departments such as human resources sales general inquiries
wholesale distribution media pr investors web comments order status and so on in the beginning
these will all forward to your email address in phase three most will forward to the appropriate
outsourcers multiple toll free numbers can be used in the same fashion three set up an
interactive voice response ivr remote receptionist it is possible to sound like a blue chip for less
than 30 dollars in fewer than 10 minutes on a site such as www.angel.com which boasts clients
such as Reebok and Kellogg's it is possible to set up an 800 number that greets callers with a voice
prompt such as thank you for calling business name please say the name of the person or department
you would like to reach or just hold on for a list of options upon speaking your name or selecting
the appropriate department the caller is forwarded to your preferred phone or the appropriate
outsourcer with on hold music and all four do not provide home addresses do not use your home address
or you will get visitors prior to securing an end-to-end fulfillment house that can handle
checks and money orders if you decide to accept them use the post office box but leave out the
po box and include the street address of the post office itself thus po box 555 nowhere us
11936 becomes sweet 555 1234 downtown avenue us 11936 go forth and project professionalism with
a well-designed image perceived size does matter comfort challenge relax in public two days this is
the last comfort challenge placed prior to the chapter that tackles the most uncomfortable
turning point for most office dwellers negotiating remote work agreements this challenge is intended
to be fun while showing in no uncertain terms that the rules most follow are nothing more than
social conventions there are no legal boundaries stopping you from creating an ideal life or just
being self-entertained and causing mass confusion so relaxing in public sounds easy right i'm somewhat
famous for relaxing in style to get a laugh out of friends here is the deal and i don't care if
you're male or female 20 or 60 mongolian or martian i call the following a timeout
once per day for two days simply lie down in the middle of a crowded public place at some point
lunchtime is ideal it can be a well-trafficked sidewalk the middle of a popular starbucks or
a popular bar there is no real technique involved just lie down and remain silent on the ground for
about 10 seconds and then get up and continue on with whatever you were doing before i used to do
this at nightclubs to clear space for break dancing circles no one responded to pleading
but going catatonic on the ground did the trick don't explain it at all if someone asks you about
it after the fact he or she will be too confused to ask you while you're doing it for 10 seconds
just respond i just felt like lying down for a second the less you say the funnier and more
gratifying this will be do it on solo missions for the first two days and then feel free to do it
when with a group of friends it's a riot it isn't enough to think outside the box thinking is
the box thinking is passive get used to acting outside the box tools and tricks looking huge
virtual receptionist and ivr angel www.angel.com 888-692-6435 get an 800 number with professional
voice menu voice recognition departments extensions etc in five minutes incredible
ring central www.ringcentral.com 888-898-4591 offers toll free numbers call screening and forwarding
voicemail fax send and receive and message alerts all online cd dvd duplication printing and product
packaging avc corporation www.avccorp.com 310-533-5811 sfvideo www.sfvideo.com 800-545-5865
local fulfillment fewer than 20 units shipped per week mailing fulfillment service association
www.mfsanet.org 800-333-6272 end to end fulfillment companies more than 20 units
shipped per week 500 plus setup motivational fulfillment www.mfpsinc.com 909-517-2200
the secret backend infrastructure to campaigns from hbo pbs comic relief body by jake and more
molten fulfillment www.moltenfulfillment.com 818-997-1800 200 000 square foot facility that
offers real-time online inventory reports national fulfillment www.nationalfulfillment.com
800-449-0016 located in central tennessee to minimize ship times to all domestic locations
order taking call centers per minute charges these call centers are known for being efficient
order takers in other words if you give the product price in an advertisement hard offer
are offering free information lead generation or don't need trained salespeople who can overcome
objections these are good options west teleservices www.west.com 800-232-0900
employs 29 000 worldwide and processes billions of minutes per year all the high volume and low
price players use them live ops www.liveops.com 800-411-4700 this pioneer in home-based reps
often permits lower per minute rates converges www.converges.com 888-284-9900 closer call centers
per minute and or per sale commissions these call centers are more appropriately called
sales centers operators are commissioned and trained closers whose sole goal is to convert
callers to buyers these calls are in response to call for information trial sample ads that
don't feature a price soft offers these are the pros i work with but expect higher costs
impulse www.impulseresponse.com 800-841-9000 provides everything to manage your campaign
from script writers to consultants to in-house trainers excellent reputation
protocol marketing www.protocolmarketing.com 800-677-2001 one of the classic sales oriented
call centers i've used them for years triton technology www.tritontechnology.com 800-704-7538
commission only sales center known for incredible closing abilities see the movie boiler room and
alec baldwin's character in glengarry glen ross don't call unless your product sells for at least
100 credit card processors merchant account through your bank necessary these companies
unlike options in the last chapter specialize in not only processing credit cards but interacting
with fulfillment on your behalf removing you from the flow chart trans first payment processing
www.transfirst.com 800-745-2659 chase payment tech www.paymentech.com 800-824-4313
trust commerce www.trustcommerce.com 949-387-3747 affiliate program software
my affiliate program www.myaffiliateprogram.com 888-224-6565 discount media buying agencies
if you go to a magazine radio station or tv channel and pay rate card the retail pricing
first given you will never make it big save a lot of headache and expense consider using ad
agencies that negotiate discounts of up to 90 percent in their chosen media manhattan media print
www.manhmedia.com 212-808-4077 great agency with fast turnaround i've used them since the beginning
novice media print www.noviceprintmedia.com 612-874-3000 has established relationships
with over 1400 magazines and newspaper publishers and offers an average of 80 percent off of rate
card clients include sharper image and office depot mercury media tv www.mercurymedia.com
the largest private dr media agency in the united states they specialize in tv but can also handle
radio and print they offer full tracking and reporting to determine roi revshare tv www.revshare.com
310-451-2900 pay for results not time is their motto revshare allows you to split order profits
with tv stations instead of paying for time upfront this is known as per inquiry or pi in tv
and other offline media marketing architects radio www.marketingarchitects.com 800-700-7726
the de facto leaders in radio dr but a bit on the expensive side almost all of the most successful
dr products carlton sheets no money down tony robbins etc have used them radio direct response
radio www.radio direct.com 610-892-7300 mark lipsky has put together a great firm with clients
ranging from small direct marketers to travel channel and wells fargo online marketing and
research firms ppc campaign management etc starting small find a local individual to help
sempo www.sempo.org see the member directory 781-876-8866 excellent mid-size firms clicks to
customers www.clicks2customers.com working planet www.workingplanet.com 401-709-3123
the hard-hitting pros small campaigns start at a few thousand dollars marketing experiments
www.marketingexperiments.com this is my team did it www.did-it.com 800-932-7761
pepper jams search www.pepperjamssearch.com 877-796-5700 i prospect www.iprospect.com
617-923-7000 full service infomercial producers these are the companies that made orec direct
nutra system nordic track and hooked on phonics household names the first has an excellent dr tv
glossary and both sites offer excellent resources don't call unless you can budget at least fifteen
thousand dollars for a short-form commercial or more than fifty thousand dollars for a long-form
infomercial hawthorne direct www.hawthornedirect.com 641-472-3800 script to screen www.scripttoscreen.com
714-558-3971 retail and international product distribution want to get your product on the
shelves of walmart costco nordstrom or the leading department store in japan sometimes it pays to
have experts with relationships get you there bj direct international www.bjgd.com 949-753-1111
celebrity brokers want a celebrity to endorse your product or be a spokesperson it can cost
a lot less than you think if you do it right i know of one clothing endorsement deal with the
best pitcher in major league baseball that costs just twenty thousand dollars per year
here are the brokers who can make it happen celeb brokers www.celebbrokers.com
310-268-1476 president jack king was the person who first turned me on to this fascinating world
he knows it all inside and out celebrity endorsement network www.celebrityendorsement.com
818-225-7090 celebrity finding contact any celebrity www.contactanycelebrity.com
it is possible to do it yourself as i have done many times
this online directory and its helpful staff will help you find any celebrity in the world
www.celebrityendorsement.com
this book is continued on disc 6
