Chapter 7 Interrupting Interruption and the Art of Refusal
Do your own thinking independently.
Be the chess player, not the chess piece.
Ralph Sherrell
Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations
habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate.
Dave Barry Pulitzer Prize-winning American humorist.
Spring 2000 Princeton, New Jersey 1.35 p.m.
I think I understand.
Moving on.
In the next paragraph it explains that I had detailed notes and didn't want to miss a single
point.
3.45 p.m.
Okay that makes sense, but if we look at the following example.
I paused for a moment mid-sentence.
The teaching assistant had both hands on his face.
Tim, let's end here for now, I'll be sure to keep these points in mind.
He had had enough.
Me too.
But I knew I'd only have to do it once.
For all four years of school I had a policy.
If I received anything less than an A on the first paper or non-multiple-choice test in
a given class, I would bring two to three hours of questions to the grader's office
hours and not leave until the other had answered them all or stopped out of exhaustion.
This served two important purposes.
1.
I learned exactly how the grader evaluated work, including his or her prejudices and
pet peeves.
2.
The grader would think long and hard about ever giving me less than an A. He or she would
never consider giving me a bad grade without exceptional reasons for doing so, as he or
she knew I'd come a-knocking for another three-hour visit.
Learn to be difficult when it counts.
In school, as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will help you receive
preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time.
Think back to your days on the playground.
There was always a big bully and countless victims, but there was also that one small
kid who fought like hell, thrashing and swinging for the fences.
He or she might not have won, but after one or two exhausting exchanges the bully chose
not to bother him or her.
It was easier to find someone else.
Be that kid.
Doing the important and ignoring the trivial is hard because so much of the world seems
to conspire to force crap upon you.
Fortunately, a few simple routine changes make bothering you much more painful than
leaving you in peace.
It's time to stop taking information abuse.
Not all evils are created equal.
For our purposes, an interruption is anything that prevents the start-to-finish completion
of a critical task, and there are three principal offenders.
1.
Time wasters.
Those things that can be ignored with little or no consequence.
Common time wasters include meetings, discussions, phone calls, and email that are unimportant.
2.
Time consumers.
Competitive tasks or requests that need to be completed but often interrupt high-level
work.
Here are a few you might know intimately.
Reading and responding to email, making and returning phone calls, customer service, order
status, product assistance, etc.
Financial or sales reporting, personal errands, all necessary repeated actions and tasks.
3.
Empowerment failures.
Empowerment failures where someone needs approval to make something small happen.
Here are just a few.
Fixing customer problems, lost shipments, damaged shipments, malfunctions, etc.
Customer contact, cash expenditures of all types.
Let's look at the prescriptions for all three in turn.
Time wasters.
Become an ignoramus.
The best defense is a good offense.
Dan Gable, Olympic gold medalist in wrestling and the most successful coach in history.
Personal record 299, 6, and 3 with 182 pins.
Time wasters are the easiest to eliminate and deflect.
It is a matter of limiting access and funneling all communication toward immediate action.
First, limit email consumption and production.
This is the greatest single interruption in the modern world.
Turn off the audible alert if you have one on Outlook or a similar program and turn off
automatic send receive which delivers email to your inbox as soon as someone sends them.
Check email twice per day, once at 12 noon or just prior to lunch and again at 4 p.m.
12 p.m. and 4 p.m. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously
sent email.
Never check email first thing in the morning.
This habit alone can change your life.
It seems small but has an enormous effect.
Instead, complete your most important task before 11 a.m. to avoid using lunch or reading
email as a postponement excuse.
Before implementing the twice daily routine, you must create an email autoresponse that
will train your boss, coworkers, suppliers and clients to be more effective.
I would recommend that you do not ask to implement this.
Remember one of our ten commandments, beg for forgiveness, don't ask for permission.
If this gives you heart palpitations, speak with your immediate supervisor and propose
to trial the approach for one to three days.
Cite pending projects and frustration with constant interruptions as the reasons.
Feel free to blame it on spam or someone outside of the office.
Here is a simple email template that can be used.
Greetings friends or esteemed colleagues.
Due to high workload, I am currently checking and responding to email twice daily at 12
p.m. Eastern Standard Time or your time zone and 4 p.m. Eastern Time.
If you require urgent assistance, please ensure it is urgent that cannot wait until either
12 p.m. or 4 p.m. Please contact me via phone at 555-555-5555.
Thank you for understanding this move to more efficiency and effectiveness.
It helps me accomplish more to serve you better.
Sincerely, Tim Ferriss.
Move to once per day as quickly as possible.
Emergencies are seldom that.
People are poor judges of importance and inflate minutia to fill time and feel important.
This autoresponse is a tool that, far from decreasing collective effectiveness, forces
people to re-evaluate their reason for interrupting you and helps them decrease meaningless and
time-consuming contact.
I was initially terrified of missing important requests and inviting disaster, just as you
might be upon reading this recommendation.
Nothing happened.
Give it a shot and work out the small bumps as you progress.
For an extreme example of a personal autoresponder that has never prompted a complaint and allows
me to check email once per week, send an email to timothy at brainquicken.com.
It has been revised over three years and works like a charm.
The second step is to screen incoming and limit outgoing phone calls.
One, use two telephone numbers if possible.
One office line, non-urgent, and one cellular, urgent.
This could also be two cell phones, or the non-urgent line could be an internet phone
number that routes calls to online voicemail, www.skype.com for example.
Use the cell number in the email autoresponse and answer it at all times unless it is an
unidentified caller or it is a call you don't want to answer.
If in doubt, allow the call to go to voicemail and listen to the voicemail immediately afterward
to gauge importance.
If it can wait, let it wait.
The offending parties have to learn to wait.
The office phone should be put on silent mode and allowed to go to voicemail at all times.
The voicemail recording should sound familiar.
You've reached the desk of Tim Ferriss.
I'm currently checking and responding to voicemail twice daily at 12 p.m. eastern time, or your
time zone, and 4 p.m. eastern time.
If you require assistance with a truly urgent matter that cannot wait until either 12 p.m.
or 4 p.m., please contact me on my cell at 555-555-5555.
Otherwise, please leave a message and I will return it at the next of those two times.
Be sure to leave your email address as I am often able to respond faster that way.
Thank you for understanding this move to more efficiency and effectiveness.
It helps me accomplish more to serve you better.
Have a wonderful day.
If someone does call your cell phone, it is presumably urgent and should be treated as
such.
Do not allow them to consume time otherwise.
It's all in the greeting.
Compare the following.
Jane, receiver.
Hello?
John, caller.
Hi, is this Jane?
Jane.
This is Jane.
John.
Hi, Jane.
It's John.
Jane.
Oh, hi, John.
How are you?
Or, oh, hi, John.
What's going on?
One will now digress and lead you into a conversation about nothing from which you will have to
recover and then fish out the ultimate purpose of the call.
There is a better approach.
Jane.
This is Jane speaking.
John.
Hi, it's John.
Jane.
Hi, John.
I'm right in the middle of something.
How can I help you out?
Potential continuation.
John.
Oh, I can call back.
Jane.
No, I have a minute.
What can I do for you?
Don't encourage people to chitchat and don't let them chitchat.
Get them to the point immediately.
If they meander or try to postpone for a later undefined call, reel them in and get them
to come to the point.
If they go into a long description of a problem, cut in with, name, sorry to interrupt, but
I have a call in five minutes.
What can I do to help you?
You might instead say, name, sorry to interrupt, but I have a call in five minutes.
Can you send me an email?
The third step is to master the art of refusal and avoiding meetings.
The first day our new sales VP arrived at TruSan in 2001, he came into the all-company
meeting and made an announcement in just about this many words, I'm not here to make friends,
I have been hired to build a sales team and sell product, and that's what I intend to
do.
Thanks.
So much for small talk.
He proceeded to deliver on his promise.
The office socializers disliked him for his no-nonsense approach to communication, but
everyone respected his time.
He wasn't rude without reason, but he was direct and kept the people around him focused.
Some didn't consider him charismatic, but no one considered him anything less than spectacularly
effective.
I remember sitting down in his office for our first one-on-one meeting.
Fresh off four years of rigorous academic training, I immediately jumped into explaining
the prospect profiles, elaborate planning I'd developed, responses to date, and so forth
and so on.
I had spent at least two hours preparing to make this first impression a good one.
He listened with a smile on his face for no more than two minutes and then held up a hand.
I stopped.
He laughed in a kind-hearted manner and said, Tim, I don't want the story, just tell me
what we need to do.
Over the following weeks he trained me to recognize when I was unfocused or focused
on the wrong things, which meant anything that didn't move the top two or three clients
one step closer to signing a purchase order.
Our meetings were now no more than five minutes long.
From this moment forward, resolve to keep those around you focused and avoid all meetings,
whether in person or remote, that do not have clear objectives.
It is possible to do this tactfully, but expect that some time wasters will be offended the
first few times their advances are rejected.
Once it is clear that remaining on task is your policy and not subject to change, they
will accept it and move on with life.
Hard feelings pass.
Don't suffer fools or you'll become one.
It is your job to train those around you to be effective and efficient.
No one else will do it for you.
Here are a few recommendations.
One, decide that, given the non-urgent nature of most issues, you will steer people toward
the following means of communication in order of preference, email, phone, and in-person
meetings.
If someone proposes a meeting, request an email instead and then use the phone as your
fallback offer if need be.
Site other immediately pending work tasks as the reason.
Two, respond to voicemail via email whenever possible.
This trains people to be concise, help them develop the habit.
Similar to our opening greeting on the phone, email communication should be streamlined
to prevent needless back and forth.
Thus, an email with, can you meet at 4 p.m. would become, can you meet at 4 p.m. if so?
If not, please advise three other times that work for you.
This if-then structure becomes more important as you check email less often.
Since I only check email once a week, it is critical that no one needs a what-if answered
or other information within seven days of a given email I send.
If I suspect that a manufacturing order hasn't arrived at the shipping facility, for example,
I'll send an email to my shipping facility manager along these lines.
Dear Susan, has the new manufacturing shipment arrived?
If so, please advise me on...
If not, please contact John Doe at 555-555-5555 or via email at johnatdoe.com.
He is also CC'd and advise on delivery date and tracking.
John, if there are any issues with the shipment, please coordinate with Susan, reachable at
555-4444, who has the authority to make decisions up to $500 on my behalf.
In case of emergency, call me on my cell phone, but I trust you to, thanks.
This prevents most follow-up questions, avoids two separate dialogues, and takes me out of
the problem-solving equation.
Get into the habit of considering what-if-then actions can be proposed in any email where
you ask a question.
3.
Meeting should only be held to make decisions about a predefined situation, not to define
the problem.
If someone proposes that you meet with them or set a time to talk on the phone, ask that
person to send you an email with an agenda to define the purpose.
That sounds doable, so I can best prepare, can you please send me an email with an agenda,
that is, the topics and questions we'll need to address?
That would be great, thanks in advance.
Give them a chance to bail out, the thanks in advance before a retort increases your
chances of getting the email.
The email medium forces people to define the desired outcome of a meeting or call.
Nine times out of ten, a meeting is unnecessary and you can answer the questions, once defined,
via email.
Impose this habit on others.
I haven't had an in-person meeting for my business in more than five years, and have
had fewer than a dozen conference calls, all lasting less than 30 minutes.
4.
Speaking of 30 minutes, if you absolutely cannot stop a meeting or call from happening,
define the end time.
Do not leave these discussions open-ended and keep them short.
If things are well defined, decisions should not take more than 30 minutes.
Cite other commitments at odd times to make them more believable, e.g. 320 vs. 330, and
force people to focus instead of socializing, commiserating, and digressing.
If you must join a meeting that is scheduled to last a long time or that is open-ended,
inform the organizer that you would like permission to cover your portion first as you have a
commitment in 15 minutes.
If you have to, feign an urgent phone call.
Get the hell out of there and have someone else update you later.
The other option is to be completely transparent and voice your opinion of how unnecessary
the meeting is.
If you choose this route, be prepared to face fire and offer alternatives.
5.
The cubicle is your temple.
Don't permit casual visitors.
Some suggest using a clear do-not-disturb sign of some type, but I have found that this
is ignored unless you have an office.
My approach was to put headphones on, even if I wasn't listening to anything.
If someone approached me despite this discouragement, I would pretend to be on the phone.
I'd put a finger to my lips, say something like, I hear you, and then say into the mic,
can you hold on a second?
Next, I'd turn to the invader and say, hi, what can I do for you?
I wouldn't let them get back to me, but rather force the person to give me a 5-second summary
and then send me an email if necessary.
If headphone games aren't your thing, the reflexive response to an invader should be
the same as when answering the cell phone.
Hi, invader, I'm right in the middle of something, how can I be of help?
If it's not clear within 30 seconds, ask the person to send you an email about the chosen
issue.
I'd be happy to help, but I have to finish this first.
Can you send me a quick email to remind me?
If you still cannot deflect an invader, give the person a time limit on your availability,
which can also be used for phone conversations.
Okay, I only have two minutes before a call, but what's the situation and what can I do
to help?
Use the puppy dog clothes to help your superiors and others develop the no-meeting habit.
The puppy dog clothes in sales is so named because it is based on the pet store sales
approach.
If someone likes a puppy but is hesitant to make the life-altering purchase, just offer
to let them take the pup home and bring it back if they change their minds.
Of course, the return seldom happens.
The puppy dog clothes is invaluable whenever you face resistance to permanent changes.
Get your foot in the door with a let's just try it once reversible trial.
Compare the following.
I think you'd love this puppy.
It will forever add to your responsibilities until he dies 10 years from now.
No more carefree vacations and you'll finally get to pick up poop all over the city.
What do you think?
Versus I think you'd love this puppy.
Why don't you just take him home and see what you think?
You can just bring him back if you change your mind.
Now imagine walking up to your boss in the hallway and clapping a hand on her shoulder.
I'd like to go to the meeting, but I have a better idea.
Let's never have another one since all we do is waste time and not decide anything useful.
Versus I'd really like to go to the meeting, but I'm totally overwhelmed and really need
to get a few important things done.
Can I sit out just for today?
I'd be distracted in the meeting otherwise.
I promise I'll catch up afterward by reviewing the meeting with colleague X.
Is that okay?
The second set of alternatives seem less permanent and they're intended to appear so.
Repeat this routine and ensure that you achieve more outside of the meeting than the attendees
do within it.
Repeat the disappearing act as often as possible and cite improved productivity to convert
this slowly into a permanent routine change.
Learn to imitate any good child.
Just this once, please, I promise I'll do X.
Parents fall for it because kids help adults to fool themselves.
It works with bosses, suppliers, customers and the rest of the world too.
Use it, but don't fall for it.
If a boss asks for overtime just this once, he or she will expect it in the future.
Time consumers, batch and do not falter.
A schedule defends from chaos and whim.
Annie Dillard, winner of Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, 1975.
If you have never used a commercial printer before, the pricing and lead times could surprise
you.
Let's assume it costs $310 and takes one week to print 20 customized t-shirts with
four color logos.
How much and how long does it take to print three of the same t-shirt?
$310 in one week.
How is that possible?
Simple.
The setup charges don't change.
It costs the printer the same amount in materials for plate preparation, $150, and the same
in labor to man the press itself, $100.
The setup is the real-time consumer and thus the job, despite its small size, needs to
be scheduled just like the other, resulting in the same one-week delivery date.
The lower economy of scale picks up the rest.
The cost for three shirts is $20 per shirt times three shirts instead of $3 per shirt
times 20 shirts.
The cost and time-effective solution, therefore, is to wait until you have a larger order,
an approach called batching.
Is also the solution to our distracting but necessary time consumers, those repetitive
tasks that interrupt the most important.
If you check mail and make bill payments five times a week, it might take 30 minutes per
instance and you respond to a total of 20 letters.
If you do this once per week instead, it might take 60 minutes total and you still respond
to a total of 20 letters in two and a half hours.
People do the former out of fear of emergencies.
First, there are seldom real emergencies.
Second, of the urgent communication you will receive, missing a deadline is usually reversible
and otherwise costs a minimum to correct.
There is an inescapable setup time for all tasks, large or minuscule in scale.
It is often the same for one as it is for a hundred.
There is a psychological switching of gears that can require up to 45 minutes to resume
a major task that has been interrupted.
More than a quarter of each 9 to 5 period, 28 percent, is consumed by such interruptions.
This is true of all recurring tasks and is precisely why we have already decided to check
email and phone calls twice per day at specific predetermined times, between which we let
them accumulate.
For the last three years I have checked mail no more than once a week, often not for up
to four weeks at a time.
Everything has been irreparable and nothing has cost more than $300 to fix.
This batching has saved me hundreds of hours of redundant work.
How much is your time worth?
Let's use a hypothetical example.
One, $20 per hour is how much you are paid or value your time.
This would be the case, for example, if you are paid $40,000 per year and get two weeks
of vacation per year.
$40,000 divided by 40 hours per week times 50 equals $2,000 equals $20 per hour.
Two, estimate the amount of time you will save by grouping similar tasks together and
batching them and calculate how much you have earned by multiplying this hour number by
your per hour rate, $20 here.
One time per week, 10 hours equals $200.
One time per two weeks, 20 hours equals $400.
One time per month, 40 hours equals $800.
Three, test each of the above batching frequencies and determine how much problems cost to fix
in each period.
If the cost is less than the above dollar amounts, batch even further apart.
For example, using our above math, if I check email once per week and that results in an
average loss of two sales per week totaling $80 in lost profit, I will continue checking
once per week because $200, 10 hours of time, minus $80 is still a $120 net gain, not to
mention the enormous benefits of completing other main tasks in those 10 hours.
If you calculate the financial and emotional benefit of completing just one main task,
client or completing a life changing trip, the value of batching is much more than the
per hour savings.
If the problems cost more than hours saved, scale back to the next less frequent batch
schedule.
In this case, I would drop from once per week to twice per week, not daily, and attempt
to fix the system so that I can return to once per week.
Do not work harder when the solution is working smarter.
I have batched both personal and business tasks further and further apart as I've realized
just how few real problems come up.
Some of my current batches are as follows.
Email Mondays 10am Phone Completely eliminated
Laundry every other Sunday at 10pm Credit cards and bills, most are on automatic
payment but I check balances every second Monday after email.
Health training every fourth day for 30 minutes, etc.
Empowerment Failure Rules and readjustment
The vision is really about empowering workers, giving them all the information about what's
going on so they can do a lot more than they've done in the past.
Bill Gates, co-founder of Microsoft, richest man in the world.
Empowerment failure refers to being unable to accomplish a task without first obtaining
permission or information.
It is often a case of being micromanaged or micromanaging someone else, both of which
consume your time.
For the employee, the goal is to have full access to necessary information and as much
independent decision-making ability as possible.
For the entrepreneur, the goal is to grant as much information and independent decision-making
ability to employees or contractors as possible.
Customer service is often the epitome of empowerment failure and a personal example
from Brainquicken illustrates just how serious but easily solved the problem can be.
In 2002, I had outsourced customer service for order tracking and returns but still handled
product-related questions myself.
The result?
I received more than 200 email per day, spending all hours between 9-5 responding to them and
the volume was growing at a rate of more than 10% per week.
I had to cancel advertising and limit shipments, as additional customer service would have
been the final nail in the coffin.
It wasn't a scalable model.
Remember this word as it will be important later.
It wasn't scalable because there was an information and decision bottleneck, me.
The clincher?
The bulk of the email that landed in my inbox was not product-related at all but requests
from the outsourced customer service reps seeking permission for different actions.
The customer claims he didn't receive the shipment.
What should we do?
The customer had a bottle held at customs.
Can we reship to a US address?
The customer needs the product for a competition in two days.
Can we ship overnight?
And if so, how much should we charge?
It was endless.
Depends upon hundreds of different situations made it impractical to write a manual and
I didn't have the time or experience to do so regardless.
Fortunately, someone did have the experience, the outsourced reps themselves.
I sent one single email to all the supervisors that immediately turned 200 email per day
into fewer than 20 email per week.
Hi all.
I would like to establish a new policy for my account that overrides all others.
Make the customer happy.
If it is a problem that takes less than $100 to fix, use your judgment and fix it yourself.
This is official written permission and a request to fix all problems that cost under
$100 without contacting me.
I am no longer your customer.
My customers are your customer.
Don't ask me for permission.
Do what you think is right and we'll make adjustments as we go along.
Thank you.
Tim.
In close analysis, it became clear that more than 90% of all the issues that prompted email
could be resolved for less than $20.
I reviewed the financial results of their independent decision making on a weekly basis
for four weeks, then a monthly basis, then on a quarterly basis.
It's amazing how someone's IQ seems to double as soon as you give them responsibility and
indicate that you trust them.
The first month cost perhaps $200 more than if I had been micromanaging.
In the meantime, I saved more than 100 hours of my own time per month.
Customers received faster service, returns dropped to less than 3%, the industry average
is 10 to 15% and outsourcers spent less time on my account, all of which resulted in rapid
growth, higher profit margins and happier people on all sides.
People are smarter than you think.
Give them a chance to prove themselves.
If you are a micromanaged employee, have a heart to heart with your boss and explain
that you want to be more productive and interrupt him or her less.
I hate that I have to interrupt you so much and pull you away from more important things
I know you have on your plate.
I was doing some reading and had some thoughts on how I might be more productive.
Do you have a second?
Before this conversation, develop a number of rules like the previous example that would
allow you to work more autonomously with less approval seeking.
The boss can review the outcome of your decisions on a daily or weekly basis in the initial
stages.
Just a one week trial and end with, I'd like to try it, does that sound like something
we could try for a week?
Or my personal favorite, is that reasonable?
It's hard for people to label things unreasonable.
Realize that bosses are supervisors, not slave masters.
Establish yourself as a consistent challenger of the status quo and most people will learn
to avoid challenging you, particularly if it is in the interest of higher per hour productivity.
If you are a micro-managing entrepreneur, realize that even if you can do something
better than the rest of the world, it doesn't mean that's what you should be doing if it's
part of the minutiae.
Empower others to act without interrupting you.
The bottom line is that you only have the rights you fight for.
Set the rules in your favor, limit access to your time, force people to define their
requests before spending time with them and batch routine menial tasks to prevent postponement
of more important projects.
Do not let people interrupt you.
Find your focus and you'll find your lifestyle.
In the next section, Automation, we'll see how the new rich create management-free money
and eliminate the largest remaining obstacle of all, themselves.
Q&A Questions and Actions
People think it must be fun to be a super genius, but they don't realize how hard it
is to put up with all the idiots in the world.
Calvin from Calvin and Hobbes
Learn to recognize and fight the interruption impulse.
This is infinitely easier when you have a set of rules, responses and routines to follow.
It is your job to prevent yourself and others from letting the unnecessary and unimportant
prevent the start to finish completion of the important.
This chapter differs from the previous in that the necessary actions due to the inclusion
of examples and templates have been presented throughout from start to finish.
This Q&A will thus be a summary rather than a repetition.
The devil is in the details, so be sure to re-read this chapter for the specifics.
The 50,000 foot review is as follows.
1.
Create systems to limit your availability via email and phone and deflect inappropriate
contact.
Get the auto response and voicemail script in place now and master the various methods
of evasion.
Replace the habit of how are you with how can I help you?
Get specific and remember no stories.
Focus on immediate actions and practice interruption killing policies.
Avoid meetings whenever possible.
Use email instead of face-to-face meetings to solve problems.
Beg off going, this can be accomplished through the puppy dog clothes.
If meetings are unavoidable, keep the following in mind.
Go in with a clear set of objectives, set an end time or leave early.
2.
Batch activities to limit setup cost and provide more time for dreamline milestones.
What can I routinize by batching?
That is, what tasks, whether laundry, groceries, mail, payments or sales reporting, for example,
can I allot to a specific time each day, week, month, quarter or year so that I don't squander
time repeating them more often than is absolutely necessary?
3.
Set or request autonomous rules and guidelines with occasional review of results.
Eliminate the decision bottleneck for all things that are non-fatal if misperformed.
If an employee, believe in yourself enough to ask for more independence on a trial basis.
Have practical rules prepared and ask the boss for the sale after surprising him or
her with an impromptu presentation.
Remember the puppy dog clothes, make it a one-time trial and reversible.
For the entrepreneur or manager, give others the chance to prove themselves.
The likelihood of irreversible or expensive problems is minimal and the time savings are
guaranteed.
Remember profit is only profitable to the extent that you can use it.
For that you need time.
Comfort challenge.
Revisit the terrible twos.
Two days.
For the next two days, do as all good two-year-olds do and say no to all requests.
Don't be selective.
Refuse to do all things that won't get you immediately fired.
Be selfish.
As with the last exercise, the objective isn't an outcome, in this case eliminating just
those things that waste time, but the process, getting comfortable with saying no.
Potential questions to decline include the following.
Do you have a minute?
Want to see a movie tonight, tomorrow?
Can you help me with X?
No should be your default answer to all requests.
Don't make up elaborate lies or you'll get called on them.
A simple answer such as, I really can't, sorry, I've got too much on my plate right now, will
do as a catch-all response.
Step 3.
A is for automation.
Scotty.
She's all yours, sir.
All systems automated and ready.
A chimpanzee and two trainees could run her.
Captain Kirk.
Thank you, Mr. Scott.
I'll try not to take that personally.
Star Trek.
Chapter 8.
Outsourcing life.
Offloading the rest and a taste of geo-arbitrage.
A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone.
Henry David Thoreau, naturalist.
If I told you this story, you wouldn't believe me, so I'll let A.J. tell it.
It will set the stage for even more incredible things to come, all of which you will do yourself.
My Outsourced Life.
A true account by A.J. Jacobs, editor-at-large at Esquire magazine.
It began a month ago.
I was midway through The World is Flat, the bestseller by Tom Friedman.
I like Friedman, despite his puzzling decision to wear a mustache.
His book is all about how outsourcing to India and China is not just for tech support
and car makers, but is poised to transform every industry in America, from law to banking
to accounting.
I don't have a corporation.
I don't even have an up-to-date business card.
I'm a writer and editor working from home, usually in my boxer shorts, or if I'm feeling
formal, my penguin-themed pajama bottoms.
Then again, I think, why should Fortune 500 firms have all the fun?
Why can't I join in on the biggest business trend of the new century?
Why can't I outsource my low-end tasks?
Why can't I outsource my life?
The next day, I emailed Brickwork, one of the companies Friedman mentions in his book.
Brickwork, based in Bangalore, India, offers remote executive assistance, mostly to financial
firms and health care companies that want data processed.
I explained that I'd like to hire someone to help with Esquire-related tasks, doing
research, formatting memos, like that.
The company's CEO, Vivek Kulkarni, responds, it would be a great pleasure to be talking
to a person of your stature.
Already, I'm liking this.
I've never had stature before.
In America, I barely command respect from a Bennigan's Mater Dee, so it's nice to know
that in India, I have stature.
A couple of days later, I get an email from my new remote executive assistant.
Dear Jacobs, my name is Honey K. Balani.
I would be assisting you in your editorial and personal job.
I would try to adapt myself as per your requirements that would lead to desired satisfaction.
Desired satisfaction?
This is great.
Back when I worked at an office, I had assistants, but there was never any talk of desired satisfaction.
In fact, if anyone ever used the phrase desired satisfaction, we'd all end up in a solemn
meeting with HR.
I go out to dinner with my friend Misha, who grew up in India, founded a software firm,
and subsequently became nauseatingly rich.
I tell him about Operation Outsource.
You should call your man in India, he says.
Misha explains that this is a company for Indian businessmen who have moved overseas,
but who still have parents back in New Delhi or Mumbai.
YMII is their overseas concierge service.
It buys movie tickets and cell phones and other sundries for abandoned moms.
Perfect.
This could kick my outsourcing up to a new level.
I can have a nice, clean division of labor.
Honey will take care of my business affairs, and YMII can attend to my personal life, pay
my bills, make vacation reservations, buy stuff online.
Happily, YMII likes the idea, and just like that, the support team at Jacobs, Inc. has
doubled.
Honey has completed her first project for me.
Research on the person Esquire has chosen as the sexiest woman alive.
I've been assigned to write a profile of this woman, and I really don't want to have to
slog through all the heavy breathing fan websites about her.
When I open Honey's file, I have this reaction.
America is fucked.
There are charts.
There are section headers.
There is a well-organized breakdown of her pets, measurements, and favorite foods, e.g.
swordfish.
If all Bangaloreans are like Honey, I pity Americans about to graduate college.
They're up against a hungry, polite, excel-proficient Indian army.
In fact, in the next few days, I outsource a whole mess of online errands to Asha from
the personal service YMII, paying my bills, getting stuff from drugstore.com, finding
my son a Tickle Me Elmo.
Actually, the store was out of Tickle Me Elmos, so Asha bought a Chicken Dance Elmo.
Good decision.
I had her call singular to ask about my cell phone plan.
I'm just guessing, but I bet her call was routed from Bangalore to New Jersey and then
back to a singular employee in Bangalore, which makes me happy for some reason.
It's the fourth morning of my new farmed-out life, and when I flip on my computer, my email
inbox is already filled with updates from my overseas aides.
It's a strange feeling having people work for you while you sleep.
Strange, but great.
I'm not wasting time while I drool on my pillow.
Things are getting done.
Honey is my protector.
Consider this.
For some reason, the Colorado Tourism Board emails me all the time.
Most recently, they informed me about a festival in Colorado Springs featuring the world's
most famous harlequin.
I request that Honey gently ask them to stop with the press releases.
Here's what she sent.
Dear all, Jacobs often receives mails from Colorado News.
Too often.
They are definitely interesting topics, however, these topics are not suitable for Esquire.
Further, we do understand that you have taken a lot of initiatives working on these articles
and sending it to us.
We understand.
Unfortunately, these articles and mails are too time-consuming to be read.
Currently, these mails are not serving right purpose for both of us.
Thus, we request to stop sending these mails.
We do not mean to demean your research work by this.
We hope you understand too.
Thanking you, Honey KB.
That is a best rejection notice in journalism history.
It's exceedingly polite, but there's a little undercurrent of indignation.
Honey seems almost outraged that Colorado would waste the valuable time of Jacobs.
I decide to test the next logical relationship, my marriage.
These arguments with my wife are killing me, partly because Julie is a much better debater
than I am.
Maybe Asha can do better.
Hello Asha.
My wife got annoyed at me because I forgot to get cash at the automatic bank machine.
I wonder if you could tell her that I love her, but gently remind her that she too forgets
things.
She has lost her wallet twice in the last month and she forgot to buy nail clippers
for Jasper.
AJ.
I can't tell you what a thrill I got from sending that note.
It's pretty hard to get much more passive aggressive than bickering with your wife via
an email from a subcontinent halfway around the world.
The next morning Asha cc'd me on the email she sent to Julie.
Julie, do understand your anger that I forgot to pick up the cash at the automatic machine.
I have been forgetful and I am sorry about that, but I guess that doesn't change the
fact that I love you so much.
I love AJ.
P.S.
This is Asha mailing on behalf of Mr. Jacobs.
As if that weren't enough she also sent Julie an e-card.
I click on it.
Two teddy bears embracing with the words, anytime you need a hug, I've got one for you.
I'm sorry.
Damn, my outsourcers are too friggin' nice.
They kept the apology part but took out my little jabs.
They're trying to save me from myself.
They are super egoing my id.
I feel castrated.
Julie on the other hand seems quite pleased.
That's nice sweetie.
I forgive you.
Despite three weeks with my support team I'm still stressed.
Perhaps it's the fault of chicken dance Elmo whom my son loves to the point of dry humping
but who is driving me slowly insane.
Whatever the reason I figure it's time to conquer another frontier, outsourcing my inner
life.
First I try to delegate my therapy.
My plan is to give Asha a list of my neuroses and a childhood anecdote or two, have her
talk to my shrink for 50 minutes then relay the advice.
Smart, right?
My shrink refused.
Ethics or something.
Fine.
Instead I have Asha send me a meticulously researched memo on stress relief.
It had a nice Indian flavor to it with a couple of yogic postures and some visualization.
This was okay but it didn't seem quite enough.
I decided I needed to outsource my worry.
For the last few weeks I've been tearing my hair out because a business deal is taking
far too long to close.
I asked Honey if she would be interested in tearing her hair out in my stead, just
for a few minutes a day.
She thought it was a wonderful idea.
I will worry about this every day, she wrote.
Do not worry.
The outsourcing of my neuroses was one of the most successful experiments of the month.
Every time I started to ruminate I'd remind myself that Honey was already on the case
and I'd relax.
No joke.
This alone was worth it.
At a glance.
Where you will be.
The future is here.
It's just not widely distributed yet.
William Gibson, author of Neuromancer, coined term cyberspace in 1984.
Here is a sneak preview of full automation.
I woke up this morning and given that it's Monday I checked my email for one hour after
an exquisite Buenos Aires breakfast.
Saumia from India had found a long lost high school classmate of mine and Anakul from YMII
had put together Excel research reports for retiree happiness and the average annual hours
worked in different fields.
Interviews for this week had been set by a third Indian virtual assistant who had also
found contact information for the best Kendo schools in Japan and the top salsa teachers
in Cuba.
In the next email folder I was pleased to see that my fulfillment account manager in
Tennessee, Beth, had resolved nearly two dozen problems in the last week keeping our largest
clients in China and South Africa smiling and had also coordinated California sales
tax filing with my accountants in Michigan.
The taxes had been paid via my credit card on file and a quick glance at my bank accounts
confirmed that Shane and the rest of the team at my credit card processor were depositing
more cash than last month.
All was right in the world of automation.
It was a beautiful sunny day and I closed my laptop with a smile.
For an all you can eat buffet breakfast with coffee and orange juice I paid $4 US.
The Indian outsourcers cost between $4 to $10 US per hour.
My domestic outsources are paid on performance or when product ships.
This creates a curious business phenomenon, negative cash flow is impossible.
Fun things happen when you earn dollars, live on pesos and compensate in rupees but that's
just the beginning.
But I'm an employee, how does this help me?
Nobody can give you freedom, nobody can give you equality or justice or anything.
If you're a man you take it.
Malcolm X, Malcolm X speaks.
Getting a remote personal assistant is a huge departure point and marks the moment that
you learn how to give orders and be commander instead of the commanded.
It is small scale training wheels for the most critical of NR skills, remote management
and communication.
It is time to learn how to be the boss.
It isn't time consuming, it's low cost and it's low risk.
Whether or not you need someone at this point is immaterial, it is an exercise.
It is also a litmus test for entrepreneurship.
Can you manage, direct and chastise other people?
Given the proper instruction and practice I believe so.
Most entrepreneurs fail because they jump into the deep end of the pool without learning
to swim first.
Using a virtual assistant, VA, as a simple exercise with no downside, the basics of management
are covered in a 2 to 4 week test costing between $100 to $400.
This is an investment, not an expense and the ROI is astounding.
It will be repaid in a maximum of 10 to 14 days after which it is pure time saving profit.
Building a member of the NR is not just about working smarter, it's about building a system
to replace yourself.
This is the first exercise.
Even if you have no intention of becoming an entrepreneur, this is the ultimate continuation
of our 80-20 and elimination process.
Preparing someone to replace you, even if it never happens, will produce an ultra-refined
set of rules that will cut remaining fat and redundancy from your schedule.
Lingering unimportant tasks will disappear as soon as someone else is being paid to do
them.
But what about the cost?
This is a hurdle that is hard for most.
If I can do it better than an assistant, why should I pay them at all?
Because the goal is to free your time to focus on bigger and better things.
This chapter is a low-cost exercise to get you past this lifestyle limiter.
It is absolutely necessary that you realize that you can always do something more cheaply
This doesn't mean you want to spend your time doing it.
If you spend your time, worth $20 to $25 per hour, doing something that someone else will
do for $10 per hour, it's simply a poor use of resources.
It is important to take baby steps toward paying others to do work for you.
Few do it, which is another reason so few people have their ideal lifestyles.
Even if the cost is occasionally more per hour than you currently earn, the trade is
often worth it.
Let's assume you make $50,000 and thus $25 per hour, working from 9 to 5 Monday through
Friday for 50 weeks per year.
If you pay a top-notch assistant $30 per hour and he or she saves you one full 8-hour shift
per week, your cost, subtracting what you're being paid, is $40 to free an extra day.
Would you pay $40 per week to work Monday to Thursday?
I would, and I do.
Keep in mind that this is a worst-case-cost scenario.
But what if your boss freaks out?
It's largely a non-issue, and prevention is better than cure.
There is no ethical or legal reason for the boss to know if you choose non-sensitive tasks.
The first option is to assign personal items.
Time is time, and if you're spending time on chores and errands that could be spent
better elsewhere, a VA will improve life and the management learning curve is similar.
Second, you can delegate business tasks that don't include financial information or identify
your company.
Ready to build an army of assistants?
Let's first look at the dark side of delegation.
A review is in order to prevent abuses of power and wasteful behavior.
Delegation dangers before getting started.
The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an
efficient operation will magnify the efficiency.
The second is that automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the
inefficiency.
Bill Gates.
Have you ever been given illogical assignments, handed unimportant work, or commanded to do
something in the most inefficient fashion possible?
Not fun and not productive.
Now it's your turn to show that you know better.
Delegation is to be used as a further step in reduction, not as an excuse to create more
movement and add the unimportant.
Remember, unless something is well defined and important, no one should do it.
Eliminate before you delegate.
Never automate something that can be eliminated and never delegate something that can be automated
or streamlined.
Otherwise, you waste someone else's time instead of your own, which now wastes your hard-earned
cash.
How's that for incentive to be effective and efficient?
Now you're playing with your own dough.
It's something I want you to get comfortable with, and this baby step is small stakes.
Did I mention to eliminate before you delegate?
For example, it is popular among executives to have assistants read email.
In some cases, this is valuable.
In my case, I use spam filters, autoresponders with fax, and automatic forwarding to outsourcers
to limit my email obligation to 10 to 20 email responses per week.
It takes me 30 minutes per week because I used systems, elimination, and automation
to make it so.
Nor do I use an assistant to set meetings and conference calls because I have eliminated
meetings.
If I need to set the odd 20-minute call for a given month, I'll send one two-sentence
email and be done with it.
Principle number one is to refine rules and processes before adding people.
Using people to leverage a refined process multiplies production.
Using people as a solution to a poor process multiplies problems.
The menu.
A world of possibilities.
I am not interested in picking up crumbs of compassion thrown from the table of someone
who considers himself my master.
I want the full menu of rights.
Bishop Desmond Tutu, South African cleric and activist.
The next question then becomes, what should you delegate?
It's a good question, but I don't want to answer it.
I want to watch Family Guy.
The truth be told, it is a hell of a lot of work writing about not working.
Ritika of Brickworth and Venki of YMII are more than capable of writing this section,
so I'll just mention two guidelines and leave the mental hernia of detail work to them.
Golden rule number one.
Each delegated task must be both time-consuming and well-defined.
If you're running around like a chicken with its head cut off and assign your VA to do
that for you, it doesn't improve the order of the universe.
Golden rule number two.
On a lighter note, have some fun with it.
Have someone in Bangalore or Shanghai send emails to friends as your personal concierge
to set lunch dates or similar basics.
Harris your boss with odd phone calls in strong accents from unknown numbers.
Being effective doesn't mean being serious all the time.
It's fun being in control for a change.
Get a bit of repression off your chest so it doesn't turn into a complex later.
Getting personal and going Howard Hughes.
Howard Hughes, the ultra-rich filmmaker and eccentric from The Aviator, was notorious
for assigning odd tasks to his assistants.
Here are a few you might want to consider.
One.
After his first plane crash, Hughes confided in a friend that he believed his recovery
was due to his consumption of orange juice and its healing properties.
He believed that exposure to the air diluted the juice's potency, so he demanded that
fresh oranges be sliced and juiced in front of him.
Two.
When Hughes was partaking of the nightlife in Las Vegas, his aides were charged with
approaching any girls he took a liking to.
If a girl was invited to join the Hughes table and agreed, an aide would pull out a waiver
and agreement for her to sign.
Three.
Hughes had a barber on call 24-7, but had his hair and nails trimmed about once a year.
Four.
In his hotel-bound years, Hughes was rumored to have instructed assistants to place a single
cheeseburger in a specific tree outside his penthouse room at 4 p.m. each day, whether
he was there or not.
Such a world of possibilities.
Just as the Model T brought transportation to the masses, virtual assistants bring eccentric
billionaire behavior within reach of each man, woman and child.
Now that's progress.
Without further ado, let me pass the mic.
Note that YMII performs both personal and business tasks, whereas Brickwork focuses
solely on business projects.
Let's start with the important but dull stuff and move quickly from the sublime to the ridiculous.
To give a true taste of what to expect, I have not corrected non-native-sounding English.
Venki.
Don't limit yourself.
Just ask us if something is possible.
We've arranged parties, organized caterers, researched summer courses, cleaned up accounting
books, created 3D drafts based on blueprints.
Just ask us.
We could find the closest kid-friendly restaurant to your house for your son's birthday, finding
out costs and organizing the birthday party.
This frees up your time to work or hang out with your son.
What can we not do?
We can't do anything that would require our physical presence, but you would be surprised
as to how small a set of tasks that is in this day and age.
Here are the most common tasks we handle.
Scheduling interviews and meetings.
Web research.
Following up on appointments, errands, and tasks.
Online purchases.
Creation of legal documents.
Website maintenance.
Web design, publishing, uploading files that doesn't require a professional designer.
Monitoring, editing, and publishing comments for online discussions.
Posting job vacancies on the web.
Market creation.
Proofreading and editing documents for spelling and formatting.
Online research for updating blogs.
Updating the database for customer relationship management software.
Managing recruitment processes.
Updating invoices and receiving payments.
Voicemail transcription.
Ritika at Brickwork added the following.
Market research, financial research, business plans, industry analysis, market assessment
Preparing presentations, reports and newsletters, legal research, analytics, website development,
search engine optimization, maintaining and updating databases, credit scoring, managing
procurement processes.
Venky.
We have a forgetful client who has us call him all the time with various reminders.
One of our clients on a custom plan has us wake him up every morning.
We've done the legwork and found people who fell out of contact after Katrina.
Found jobs for clients.
My favorite so far.
One of our clients has a pair of trousers that he really likes that aren't in production
anymore.
He's sending them to Bangalore from London to have created exact replicas at a tiny fraction
of the price.
Here are a few other YMII custom requests.
Reminding an overzealous client to pay his current parking fines as well as not speed
and collect parking fines.
Apologizing and sending flowers and cards to spouses of clients.
Charting a diet plan, reminding client on it regularly, ordering groceries based on
the specific diet plan.
Getting a job for a person who lost his job due to outsourcing a year back.
We did the job search, did the cover letters, did the resume tuning and got the client a
job in 30 days.
Fixing a broken window pane of a house in Geneva, Switzerland.
Collecting homework information from a teacher's voicemail and emailing it to the client, parents
of the kid.
Research on how to tie a shoelace meant for a kid, client's son.
Find a parking slot for your car in some other city even before you make the trip.
Ordered garbage bins for home.
Get an authenticated weather forecast and weather report for a particular time in a
particular place on a particular day five years ago.
This was to be used as supportive evidence for a lawsuit.
Talking to parents in our client's stead.
New Delhi or New York?
There are tens of thousands of VAs.
How on earth do you find the right one?
The resources at the end of this chapter will show you where to look, but it is overwhelming
and confusing unless you have a few criteria determined in advance.
It often helps to begin with the question, where on earth?
Remote or local?
Made in the USA doesn't have the ring it used to.
The pros of jumping time zones and visiting third world currency are twofold.
People work while you sleep and the per hour expense is less.
Time savings and cost savings.
Ritika explains the former with an example.
One can give the remote personal assistant in India their assignment when they are leaving
work at the end of the day in New York City and they will have the presentation ready
the next morning.
Because of the time difference with India, assistants can work on it while they are asleep
and have it back in their morning.
When they wake up, they will find the completed summary in their inbox.
These assistants can also help them keep pace with what they want to read, for example.
Indian and Chinese VAs, as well as most from other developing countries, will run $4-$15
per hour, the lower end being limited to simple tasks and the higher end including the equivalent
of Harvard or Stanford MBAs and PhDs.
Need a business plan to raise funding?
Rick work can provide it for between $2,500 to $5,000 instead of $15,000 to $20,000.
Foreign assistance isn't just for the small time.
I know from first-hand discussions that executives from big five accounting and management consulting
firms routinely charge clients six figures for research reports that are then farmed
to India for low four figures.
In the United States or Canada, the per hour range is often $25 to $100.
Seems like an obvious choice, right?
Bangalore, 100%?
It's not.
The important metric is cost per completed task, not cost per hour.
The biggest challenge with overseas help will be the language barrier, which often quadruples
back and forth discussion and the ultimate cost.
The first time I hired an Indian VA, I made the fundamental mistake of not setting an
hour cap for three simple tasks.
I checked in later that week and found he had spent 23 hours chasing his tail.
He had scheduled one tentative interview for the following week set at the wrong time.
Mind-boggling.
23 hours?
It ended up costing me at $10 per hour, $230.
The same tasks assigned later that week to a native English speaker in Canada were completed
in two hours at $25 per hour, $50 for more than four times the results.
That said, I later requested another Indian VA from the same firm who was able to duplicate
the native speaker results.
How do you know which to choose?
That's the beautiful part.
You don't.
It's a matter of testing a few assistants to both sharpen your communication skills
and determine who is worth hiring and who is worth firing.
Being a results-based boss isn't as simple as it looks.
There are a number of lessons to be learned here.
First, per-hour cost is not the ultimate determinant of cost.
Look at per-task cost.
If you need to spend time restating the task and otherwise managing the VA, determine the
time required of you and add this, using your per-hour rate from earlier chapters, to the
end sticker price of the task.
It can be surprising.
As cool as it is to say that you have people working for you in three countries, it's uncool
to spend time babysitting people who are supposed to make your life easier.
Second, the proof is in the pudding.
It is impossible to predict how well you will work with a given VA without a trial.
Luckily there are things you can do to improve your odds and one of them is using a VA firm
instead of a solo operator.
Solo versus support team.
Let's suppose you find the perfect VA.
He or she is performing all of your non-critical tasks and you've decided to take a much deserved
vacation to Thailand.
It's nice to know someone besides you will be manning the wheel and putting out fires
for a change.
Finally, some relief.
Two hours before your flight from Bangkok to Phuket, you receive an email.
Your VA is out of commission and will be in the hospital for the next week.
Not good.
Vacation.
Food bar.
I don't like being dependent on one person and I don't recommend it in the least.
In the world of high technology, this type of dependency would be referred to as a single
point of failure, one fragile item upon which all else depends.
In the world of IT, the term redundancy is used as a selling point for systems that continue
to function if there is a malfunction or mechanical failure in any given part.
In the context of VAs, redundancy entails having fallback support.
I recommend that you hire a VA firm or VAs with backup teams instead of sole operators.
Examples abound, of course, of people who have had a single assistant for decades without
incident, but I suggest that this is the exception rather than the rule.
Better safe than sorry.
Besides simple disaster avoidance, a group structure provides a pool of talent that allows
you to assign multiple tasks without bothering to find a new person with the qualifications.
Brickwork and YMII both exemplify this type of structure and provide a single point of
contact, a personal account manager who then farms out your tasks to the most capable people
in the group and across different shifts.
Need graphic design?
Covered.
Need database management?
Covered.
I don't like calling and coordinating multiple people.
I want one stop shopping and am willing to pay 10% more to have it.
I encourage you to be similarly pound wise and penny foolish.
Team preference doesn't mean that bigger is better, just that multiple people are better
than one person.
The best VA I have used to date is an Indian with five backup assistants under him.
Three can be more than sufficient, but two is toeing the line.
The number one fear.
Sweetheart, did you buy a Porsche in China?
I'm sure you might have your fears, AJ certainly did.
My outsourcers now know an alarming amount about me, not just my schedule, but my cholesterol,
my infertility problems, my social security number, my passwords, including the one that
is a particularly adolescent curse word.
Sometimes I worry that I can't piss off my outsourcers or I'll end up with a $12,000
charge on my MasterCard bill from the Louis Vuitton in Anantapur.
The good news is that misuse of financial and confidential information is rare.
In all of the interviews I conducted for this section, I could find only one case of information
abuse and I had to search long and hard.
It involved an overworked US based VA who hired freelance to help at the last moment.
Commit to memory the following, never use the new hire, prohibit small operation VAs
from subcontracting work to untested freelancers without your written permission.
The more established and higher end firms, Brickwork and the below example, have security
measures that border on excessive and make it simple to pinpoint abusers in the case
of a breach.
Employees undergo background checks and sign NDAs, non-disclosure agreements, in accordance
with the company policy of maintaining confidentiality of client information.
Electronic access card for entry and exit.
Credit card information keyed only by select supervisors.
Removal of paper from the offices is prohibited.
VLAN based access restrictions between different teams.
This ensures that there is no unauthorized access of information between people of different
teams in the organization.
Regular reporting on printer logs.
Floppy drives and USB ports disabled.
BS779 certification for accomplished international security standards.
128 bit encryption technology for all data exchange.
Secure VPN connection.
I bet there is a fair chance that sensitive data is 100 times safer with Brickwork than
on your own computer.
Still, information theft is best thought of as inevitable in a digital world and precautions
should be taken with damage control in mind.
There are two rules that I use to minimize damage and allow for fast repair.
One, never use debit cards for online transactions or with remote assistance.
Reversing unauthorized credit card charges, particularly with American Express, is painless
and near instantaneous.
Recovering funds withdrawn from your checking account via unauthorized debit card use takes
dozens of hours in paperwork alone and can take months to receive if approved at all.
Two, if your VA will be accessing websites on your behalf, create a new unique login
and password to be used on those sites.
Most of us reuse both logins and passwords on multiple sites and taking this precaution
limits possible damage.
Instruct them to use these unique logins to create accounts on new sites if needed.
Note that this is particularly important when using assistance who have access to live commercial
websites, developers, programmers, etc.
If information or identity theft hasn't hit you, it will.
Use these guidelines and you'll realize when it happens that, just like most nightmares,
it's not that big a deal and is reversible.
The complicated art of simplicity.
Common complaints.
My assistant is an idiot.
It took him 23 hours to book an interview.
This was the first complaint I had, for sure, 23 hours.
I was heated up for a shouting match.
My original email to this first assistant seemed clear enough.
Dear Abdul, Here are the first tasks due at the end of next Tuesday.
Please call or email with any questions.
1.
Go to this article.
http://www.msnbc.msn.com
forward slash id forward slash 12666060
forward slash site forward slash newsweek forward slash
Get the phone, email, website contacts for Carol Milligan and Mark and Julia Zeckely.
Also find the same info for Rob Long here.
http://www.msnbc.msn.com forward slash id forward slash 12652789
forward slash site forward slash newsweek forward slash
2.
Schedule 30-minute interviews for Carol, Mark, Julie and Rob.
Use www.myevents.com, username not real, password don't try it, to book them in my calendar
for next week anytime between 9 to 9 eastern time.
3.
Find the name, email and phone, phone is least important, of workers in the U.S. who have
negotiated remote work agreements, telecommuting despite resistant bosses.
Those who have traveled outside the U.S. are ideal.
Other keywords could include teleworking and telecommuting.
The important factor is that they negotiated with difficult bosses.
Please send me links to their profiles or write a paragraph describing why they fit
the profile above.
Look forward to seeing what you can do.
Please email if you don't understand or have questions.
Best, Tim.
The truth is, I was at fault.
This is not a good debut demand and I made fatal mistakes even before composing it.
If you are an effective person but unaccustomed to issuing commands, assume that most problems
at the outset are your fault.
It is tempting to immediately point the finger at someone else and huff and puff, but most
beginner bosses repeat the same mistakes I made.
1.
I accepted the first person the firm provided and made no special requests at the outset.
Request someone who has excellent English and indicate that phone calls will be required,
and if not, be fast to request a replacement if there are repeated communication issues.
2.
I gave imprecise directions.
I asked him to schedule interviews but didn't indicate that it was for an article.
He assumed, based on work with previous clients, that I wanted to hire someone and he misspent
time compiling spreadsheets and combing online job sites for additional information I didn't
need.
Sentences should have one possible interpretation and be suitable for a second grade reading
level.
This is for native speakers as well and will make requests clearer.
$10 words disguise imprecision.
Note that I asked him to respond IF he didn't understand or had questions.
This is the wrong approach.
Ask foreign VAs to rephrase tasks to confirm understanding before getting started.
3.
I gave him a license to waste time.
This brings us again to damage control.
Request a status update after a few hours of work on a task to ensure that the task
is both understood and achievable.
Some tasks are, after initial attempts, impossible.
4.
I set the deadline a week in advance.
Use Parkinson's Law and assign tasks that are to be completed within no more than 72
hours.
I have had the best luck with 48 and 24 hours.
This is another compelling reason to use a small group, three or more, rather than a
single individual who can become overtaxed with last-minute requests from multiple clients.
Using short deadlines does not mean avoiding larger tasks, e.g. business plan, but rather
breaking them into smaller milestones that can be completed in shorter timeframes, outline,
competitive research summaries, chapters, etc.
5.
I gave him too many tasks and didn't set an order of importance.
I advise sending one task at a time whenever possible and no more than two.
If you want to cause your computer to hang or crash, open 20 windows and applications
at the same time.
If you want to do the same to your assistant, assign him or her a dozen tasks without prioritizing
them.
Recall our mantra.
Eliminate before you delegate.
What does a good VA task email look like?
The following example was recently sent to an Indian VA whose results have been nothing
short of spectacular.
Dear Samya, Thank you.
I would like to start with the following task.
Task.
I need to find the names and emails of editors of men's magazines in the U.S. for example
Maxime, Stuff, GQ, Esquire, Blender, etc. who have also written books.
An example of such a person would be A.J. Jacobs who is editor-at-large of Esquire www.ajjacobs.com.
I already have his information and need more like him.
Can you do this?
If not, please advise.
Please reply and confirm what you will plan to do to complete this task.
Deadline.
Since I'm in a rush, get started after your next email and stop at 3 hours and tell me
what results you have.
Please begin this task now if possible.
The deadline for these 3 hours and reported results is end of day eastern time Monday.
Thank you for your fastest reply, Tim.
Short, sweet and to the point.
Clear writing and therefore clear commands come from clear thinking.
Think simple.
In the next several chapters, the communication skills you develop with our virtual assistant
experiment will be applied to a much larger and obscenely profitable playing field, automation.
The extent to which you will outsource next makes delegation look like finger painting.
In the world of automation, not all business models are created equal.
How do you assemble a business and coordinate all its parts without lifting a finger?
How do you automate cash deposits in your bank account while avoiding the most common
problems?
It begins with understanding the options, the art of dodging information flow and what
we will call muses.
The next chapter is a blueprint for the first step, a product.
This book is continued on disc 4.

# touched on 2025-06-13T18:49:57.648503Z