The Four Hour Workweek Escape the 9 to 5, Live Anywhere and Join the New Rich by Timothy
Ferris Continued Disc 6
Step 4 L is for Liberation It is far better for a man to go wrong in
freedom than to go right in chains Thomas H. Huxley, English biologist, known
as Darwin's Bulldog
Chapter 12 Disappearing Act, How to Escape the Office
By working faithfully eight hours a day you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve
hours a day Robert Frost, American poet and winner of
four Pulitzer Prizes On this path it is only the first step that
counts St. Jean-Baptiste Marie Vianney, Catholic Saint, Curé d'Ears
Palo Alto, California We're not going to expense the phone
I'm not asking you to Silence, then a nod, a laugh, and a crooked
smile of resignation Okay then, it's fine
And that was that, Lickety Split 44 year old Dave Camarillo, lifelong employee,
had cracked the code and started his second life
He hadn't been fired, he hadn't been yelled at, his boss seemed to be handling the whole
situation quite well Granted, Dave delivered the goods on the job
and it wasn't like he was doing naked snow angels in client meetings, but still, he had
just spent 30 days in China without telling anyone
It wasn't half as hard as I thought it would be
Dave works among more than 10,000 employees at Hewlett Packard, HP, and against all odds,
he actually likes it He has no desire to start his own company
and has spent the last seven years doing tech support for customers in 45 states and 22
countries Six months ago, however, he had a small problem
She measured 5 foot 2 inches and weighed 110 pounds
Was he, like most men, afraid of commitment, unwilling to stop running around the house
in Spider-Man underoos, or inseparable from the last refuge of any self-respecting man,
the PlayStation?
No, he was past all that In fact, Dave was locked and loaded, ready
to pop the big question, but he was short on vacation days and his girlfriend lived
out of town Way out of town, 5,913 miles out of town
He had met her on a client visit to Shenzhen, China, and it was now time to meet the parents
Logistics be damned
Dave had only recently begun to take tech calls at home and, well, isn't home where
the heart is?
One plane ticket and one T-Mobile GSM tri-band phone later, he was somewhere over the Pacific
on route to his first seven-day experiment 12 time zones hence, he proposed, she accepted,
and no one was the wiser stateside The second field trip was a 30-day tour of
Chinese family and food Pig face, anyone?
Ending with Shumei Wu becoming Shumei Camerio Back in Palo Alto, HP continued its quest
for world domination, neither knowing nor caring where Dave was
He had his calls forwarded to his newly begotten wife's cell phone and all was right in the
world Now, back in the United States, after hoping
for the best and preparing for the worst, Dave had earned his Eagle Scout mobility badge
The future looks flexible indeed He is going to start by spending two months
in China every summer and then move to Australia and Europe to make up for lost time, all with
the full support of his boss The key to cutting the leash was simple
He asked for forgiveness instead of permission I didn't travel for 30 years of my life, so
why not?
That's precisely the question everybody should be asking, why the hell not?
From cast to cast away The old rich, the upper class of yore with
castles and ascots and irritating little lap dogs are characterized as being well established
in one place The Schwartzes of Nantucket and the McDonalds
of Charlottesville, blech Summers in the Hamptons is so 1990s
The guard is changing Being bound to one place will be the new defining
feature of middle class The new rich are defined by a more elusive
power than simple cash Unrestricted mobility
This jet setting is not limited to startup owners or freelancers, employees can pull
it off too If you're an entrepreneur, don't skip this
chapter This introduction to remote working tools
and tactics is integral to the international pieces of the puzzle that follow
Not only can they pull it off, but more and more companies want them to pull it off
Best Buy, the consumer electronics giant, is now sending thousands of employees home
from their HQ in Minnesota and claims not only lowered costs, but also a 10-20% increase
in results The new mantra is this, work wherever and
whenever you want, but get your work done In Japan, a three-piece zombie who joins
the nine-to-five grind each morning is called a sarari man, salary man
And in the last few years a new verb has emerged, datsu sarasuru, to escape datsu, the salary
man-sara lifestyle It's your turn to learn the datsu-sara dance
This verb is used by Japanese women as well, even though female workers are referred to
as O.L., office ladies Trading Bosses for Beer, an Oktoberfest case study
To create the proper leverage to be unshackled, we'll do two things, demonstrate the business
benefit of remote working and make it too expensive or excruciating to refuse a request
for it Remember Sherwood?
His French shirts are beginning to move and he is itching to ditch the United States for
a global walkabout He has more than enough cash now, but needs
to escape constant supervision in the office before he can implement all the time-saving
tools from elimination and travel He is a mechanical engineer and is producing
twice as many designs in half the time since erasing 90% of his time wasters and interruptions
This quantum leap in performance has been noticed by his supervisors and his value to
the company has increased, making it more expensive to lose him More value means more
leverage for negotiations Sherwood has been sure to hold back some of his productivity
and efficiency so that he can highlight a sudden jump in both during a remote work trial
period Since eliminating most of his meetings and
in-person discussions, he has naturally moved about 80% of all communication with his boss
and colleagues to email, and the remaining 20% to phone Not only this, but he has used
tips from Chapter 7, Interrupting Interruption and the Art of Refusal, to cut unimportant
and repetitive email volume in half This will make the move to remote less noticeable
if at all noticeable from a managerial standpoint Sherwood is running at full speed with less
and less supervision Sherwood implements his escape in five steps
beginning on July 12th during the slow business season and lasting two months, ending with
a trip to Oktoberfest in Munich, Germany for two weeks as a final test before bigger and
bolder vagabonding plans Step 1, Increase Investment
First he speaks with his boss on July 12th about additional training that might be available
to employees He proposes having the company pay for a four-week industrial design class
to help him better interface with clients, being sure to mention the benefits to the
boss and business, i.e. he'll decrease interdepartmental back and forth and increase both client results
and billable time Sherwood wants the company to invest as much as possible in him so that
the loss is greater if he quits Step 2, Prove Increased Output Off Sites
Second he calls in sick the next Tuesday and Wednesday, July 18th and 19th to showcase
his remote working productivity Any reason to be home will do, cable or phone installation,
home repairs, etc. or if you prefer not to use a ruse, work a weekend or take two vacation
days He decides to call in sick between Tuesday
and Thursday for two reasons, it looks less like a lie for a three-day weekend and it
also enables him to see how well he functions in social isolation without the imminent reprieve
of the weekend He ensures that he doubles his work output
on both days, leaves an email trail of some sort for his boss to notice and keeps quantifiable
records of what he accomplished for reference during later negotiations Since he uses expensive
CAD software that is only licensed on his office desktop, Sherwood installs a free trial
of GoToMyPC remote access software so that he can pilot his office computer from home
Step 3, Prepare the Quantifiable Business Benefit
Third, Sherwood creates a bullet point list of how much more he achieved outside the office
with explanations He realizes that he needs to present remote
working as a good business decision and not a personal perk
The quantifiable end result was 3 more designs per day than his usual average and 3 total
hours of additional billable client time For explanations, he identifies removal of
commute and fewer distractions from office noise
Step 4, Propose a revocable trial period Fourth, fresh off completing the comfort challenge
from previous chapters, Sherwood confidently proposes an innocent one-day-per-week remote
work trial period for two weeks He plans a script in advance but does not
make it a PowerPoint presentation or otherwise give it the appearance of something serious
or irreversible Sherwood knocks on his boss's office door
around 3 p.m. on a relatively relaxed Thursday, July 27th, the week after his absence and
his script looks like the following Stock phrases are underlined and footnotes explain
negotiating points
Sherwood
Hi Bill, do you have a quick second?
Bill
Sure, what's up?
Sherwood
I just wanted to bounce an idea off of you that's been on my mind, two minutes should
be plenty
Bill
Okay, shoot
Sherwood
Last week, as you know, I was sick.
Long story short, I decided to work at home despite feeling terrible.
So here's the funny part.
I thought I would get nothing done but ended up finishing three more designs than usual
on both days.
Plus, I put in three more billable hours than usual without the commute, office noise, distractions,
etc.
Okay, so here's where I'm going.
Just as a trial, I'd like to propose working from home Mondays and Tuesdays for just two
weeks.
You can veto it whenever you want.
And I'll come in if we need to do meetings.
But I'd like to try it for just two weeks and review the results.
I'm 100% confident that I'll get twice as much done.
Does that seem reasonable?
Bill
Hmm, what if we need to share client designs?
Sherwood
There's a program called Go to My PC that I used to access the office computer when
I was sick.
I can view everything remotely and I'll have my cell phone on me 24-7.
So what do you think?
Test it out starting next Monday and see how much more I get done?
Do not digress from your goal.
Once you've addressed an objection or concern, go for the close.
Bill
Um, okay, fine, but it's just a test.
I have a meeting in five and I have to run, but let's talk soon.
Sherwood
Great, thanks for the time.
I'll keep you posted on it all.
I'm sure you'll be pleasantly surprised.
Sherwood didn't expect to get two days per week approved.
He asked for two so that, in the case his boss refused, he could ask for just one as
a fallback position, bracketing.
Why didn't Sherwood go for five days remote per week?
Two reasons.
First, it's a lot for management to accept off the bat.
We need to ask for an inch and turn it into a foot without setting off panic alarms.
Second, it is a good idea to hone your remote working abilities.
Rehearse a bit before shooting for the big time, as it decreases the likelihood of crises
and screw-ups that will get remote rights revoked.
Step 5.
Expand remote time.
Sherwood ensures that his days outside of the office are his most productive to date,
even minimally dropping in-office production to heighten the contrast.
He sets a meeting to discuss the results with his boss on August 15th and prepares a bullet
point page detailing increased results and items completed compared to in-office time.
He suggests upping the ante to four days per week remote for a two week trial, fully prepared
to concede to three days if need be.
Sherwood, it really turned out even better than I expected.
If you look at the numbers it makes a lot of business sense and I'm enjoying work a
lot more now.
So here we are.
I'd like to suggest, if you think it makes sense, that I try four days a week for another
two week trial.
I was thinking that coming in Friday would make sense to prepare for the coming week,
but we could do whichever day you prefer.
Friday is the best day to be in the office, people are relaxed and tend to leave early.
Bill, Sherwood, I'm not really sure we can do that.
Sherwood, what's your main concern?
Do not accept a vague refusal, pinpointing the main concern in detail enables you to
overcome it.
Seems like you're on your way out, I mean are you going to quit on us?
Second, what if everyone wants to do the same?
Sherwood, fair enough, good points.
Don't jump to the defensive after an objection, acknowledge the validity of a boss's concerns
to prevent an ego-driven battle of wills.
First, to be honest, I was close to quitting before, with all the interruptions and commute
and what not, but I'm actually feeling great now with the change in routine.
Note this indirect threat dressed as a confession, it will make the boss think twice about refusing
but prevents the win-lose outcome of an ultimatum.
I'm doing more and I feel relaxed for a change.
No one should be allowed to work remotely unless they can show increased productivity
and I'm the perfect experiment.
If they can show it, however, why not let them do it on a trial basis?
It lowers costs for the office, increases productivity and makes employees happier.
So what do you say?
Can I test it out for two weeks and come in Fridays to take care of the office stuff?
I'll still document everything and you, of course, have the right to change your mind
at any point.
Bill, man, you are an insistent one.
Okay, we'll give it a shot but don't go blabbing about it.
Sherwood, of course.
Thanks, Bill, I appreciate the trust.
Talk to you soon.
Sherwood continues to be productive at home and maintains his lower in-office performance.
He reviews the results with his boss after two weeks and continues with four remote days
per week for an additional two weeks until Tuesday, September 19th, when he requests
a full-time remote trial of two weeks while he is visiting relatives out of state.
This removes the boss's ability to call you to the office.
This is critical for making the first jump overseas.
Sherwood's team is in the middle of a project that requires his expertise and he is prepared
to quit if his boss refuses.
He realizes that just as you want to negotiate ad pricing close to deadlines, getting what
you want often depends more on when you ask for it than how you ask for it.
Though he would prefer not to quit, his income from shirts is more than enough to fund his
dream lines of Oktoberfest and beyond.
His boss acquiesces and Sherwood doesn't have to use his threat of quitting.
He goes home that evening and buys a $524 round-trip ticket, less than one week's shirt
sales, to Munich for Oktoberfest.
Now he can implement all the time savers possible and hack out the inessentials.
Somewhere between drinking wheat beer and dancing in Lederhosen, Sherwood will get his
work done in fine form, leaving his company better off than prior to 80-20 and leaving
himself all the time in the world.
But hold on a second.
What if your boss still refuses?
Then they force your hand.
If upper management won't see the light, you'll just have to use the next chapter to fire
their asses.
An alternative.
The hourglass approach.
It can be effective to take a longer period of absence up front in what some NR have termed
the hourglass approach, so named because you use a long proof of concept up front to get
a short remote agreement and then negotiate back up to full time out of the office.
Here's what it looks like.
Use a pre-planned project or emergency, family issue, personal issue, relocation, home repairs,
whatever, that requires you to take one or two weeks out of the office.
Say that you recognize you can't just stop working and that you would prefer to work
instead of taking vacation days.
Propose how you can work remotely and offer, if necessary, to take a pay cut for that period
and that period only, if performance isn't up to par upon returning.
Allow the boss to collaborate on how to do it so that he or she is invested in the process.
Make the two weeks off the most productive period you've ever had at work.
Show your boss the quantifiable results upon returning and tell him or her that without
all the distractions, commute, etc., you can get twice as much done.
Suggest two or three days at home per week as a trial for two weeks.
Make those remote days ultra-productive.
Suggest only one or two days in the office per week.
Make those days the least productive of the week.
Suggest complete mobility.
The boss will go for it.
Questions and actions.
Recently I was asked if I was going to fire an employee who made a mistake that cost the
company $600,000.
No, I replied.
I just spent $600,000 training him.
Thomas J. Watson, founder of IBM.
Liberty means responsibility.
That is why most men dread it.
George Bernard Shaw.
While entrepreneurs have the most trouble with automation since they fear giving up
control, employees get stuck on liberation because they fear taking control.
Resolve to grab the reins.
The rest of your life depends on it.
The following questions and actions will help you to replace presence-based work with performance-based
freedom.
1.
If you had a heart attack and assuming your boss were sympathetic, how could you work
remotely for four weeks?
If you hit a brick wall with a task that doesn't seem remote compatible, or if you predict
resistance from your boss, ask the following.
What are you accomplishing with this task?
What is the purpose?
If you had to find other ways to accomplish the same, if your life depended on it, how
would you do it?
Remote conferencing?
Video conferencing?
Go-to meeting?
Go to my PC or related software?
Why would your boss resist remote work?
What is the immediate negative effect it would have on the company and what could you do
to prevent or minimize it?
2.
Put yourself in your boss's shoes.
Based on your work history, would you trust yourself to work outside of the office?
If you wouldn't, re-listen to Elimination to improve production and consider the Hourglass
option.
3.
Practice environment-free productivity.
Attempt to work for two to three hours in a cafe for two Saturdays prior to proposing
a remote trial.
If you exercise in a gym, attempt to exercise for those two weeks at home or otherwise outside
of the gym environment.
The purpose here is to separate your activities from a single environment and ensure that
you have the discipline to work solo.
4.
Quantify current productivity.
If you have applied the 80-20 principle, set the rules of interrupting interruption and
completed related groundwork, your performance should be at an all-time high in quantifiable
terms, whether customers served, revenue generated, pages produced, speed of accounts
receivable or otherwise.
Document this.
5.
Create an opportunity to demonstrate remote work productivity before asking for it as
a policy.
This is to test your ability to work outside of an office environment and rack up some
proof that you can kick ass without constant supervision.
6.
Practice the art of getting past no before proposing.
Go to farmers markets to negotiate prices.
Ask for free first-class upgrades.
Ask for compensation if you encounter poor service in restaurants and otherwise ask for
the world and practice using the following magic questions when people refuse to give
it to you.
What would I need to do to desired outcome?
Under what circumstances would you desired outcome?
Have you ever made an exception?
I'm sure you've made an exception before, haven't you?
If no for either of the last two, ask why not?
If yes, ask why?
7.
Put your employer on remote training wheels, propose Monday or Friday at home.
Consider doing this or the following step during a period when it would be too disruptive
to fire you, even if you were marginally less productive while remote.
If your employer refuses, it's time to get a new boss or become an entrepreneur.
The job will never give you the requisite time freedom.
If you decide to jump ship, consider letting them make you walk the plank.
Hitting is often less appealing than tactfully getting fired and using severance or unemployment
to take a long vacation.
8.
Extend each successful trial period until you reach full-time or your desired level of
mobility.
Don't underestimate how much your company needs you.
Perform well and ask for what you want.
If you don't get it over time, leave.
It's too big a world to spend most of life in a cubicle.
Chapter 13.
Beyond Repair, Killing Your Job
All courses of action are risky, so prudence is not in avoiding danger, it's impossible,
but calculating risk and acting decisively.
Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth.
Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer.
Niccolò Machiavelli, The Prince
People Please and Resignations Mad Libs by Ed Murray
Dear Preferred Deity of Choice,
I realized something very adjective today as I was washing my animal, and that something
is this.
You are an adverb, cruel personal expletive pronoun.
Last night after drinking seven shots of least favorite hard liquor and snorting enough drug
to make politician blush, it became clear it really is them and not me.
I am the one who is completely helpless state of being when it comes to the favorite color
personal relationships in my life, and yet I share my innermost type of candy with no
one else on this adjective planet, because they are all insulting adjective extinct animals.
I emotion them all and I hope they meet an adjective demise choking on a platter of
their own Applebee's appetizer.
This adjective catharsis made me feel smiley emotion and strangely alone simultaneously.
How can I connect with these herd animals I am surrounded by on a daily basis?
I am just so sick of synonym for crying in the part of your house every day.
Maybe it would help if I shoved a fistful of vegetables into my bodily orifice.
It makes my heart verb when I see the defeat in my parents body parts and it becomes adverb
clear that they love the type of car more than siblings name.
Maybe I should stab my genitalia with a sharp object.
Today I have decided to buy a noun which will serve as a metaphor and as a timeless adjective
symbol for the expletive faced servitude I am bound to in this life.
No more in control than the most adjective minded of farm animals.
I am trying desperately to st-p myself from active violent act all of my co-workers except
person in the room.
I've always wanted to forceful sexual act him her it.
I didn't ask to be verb.
If reincarnation does exist please leave me out of it.
Some jobs are simply beyond repair.
Improvements would be like adding a set of designer curtains to a jail cell.
Better but far from good.
In the context of this chapter job will refer to both a company if you run one and a normal
job if you have one.
Some recommendations are limited to one of the two but most are relevant to both.
So we begin.
I have quit three jobs and been fired from all the rest.
Getting fired despite sometimes coming as a surprise and leaving you scrambling to recover
is often a godsend.
Someone else makes the decision for you and it's impossible to sit in the wrong job for
the rest of your life.
Most people aren't lucky enough to get fired and die a slow spiritual death over 30-40
years of tolerating the mediocre.
Pride and Punishment
If you must play decide on three things at the start, the rules of the game, the stakes
and the quitting time.
Chinese proverb.
Just because something has been a lot of work or consumed a lot of time doesn't make it
productive or worthwhile.
Just because you are embarrassed to admit that you're still living the consequences
of bad decisions made 5, 10 or 20 years ago shouldn't stop you from making good decisions
now.
If you let pride stop you, you will hate life 5, 10 and 20 years from now for the same reasons.
I hate to be wrong and sat in a dead end trajectory with my own company until I was forced to
change directions or face total breakdown.
I know how hard it is.
Now that we're all on a level playing field, pride is stupid.
Being able to quit things that don't work is integral to being a winner.
Going into a project or job without defining when worthwhile becomes wasteful is like going
into a casino without a cap on what you will gamble, dangerous and foolish.
But you don't understand my situation, it's complicated.
But is it really?
Don't confuse the complex with the difficult.
Most situations are simple, many are just emotionally difficult to act upon.
The problem and the solution are usually obvious and simple.
It's not that you don't know what to do, of course you do, you are just terrified that
you might end up worse off than you are now.
I'll tell you right now, if you're at this point you won't be worse off.
Revisit fear setting and cut the cord.
Like pulling off a bandaid, it's easier and less painful than you think.
The average man is a conformist, accepting miseries and disasters with the stoicism of
a cow standing in the rain.
Colin Wilson, British author of The Outsider, New Existentialist
There are several principal phobias that keep people on sinking ships and there are simple
rebuttals for all of them.
1.
Quitting is permanent.
Far from it.
Use the Q&A questions in this chapter and chapter 3, fear setting, to examine how you
could pick up your chosen career track or start another company at a later point.
I have never seen an example where a change of direction wasn't somehow reversible.
2.
I won't be able to pay the bills.
Sure you will.
First of all, the objective will be to have a new job or source of cash flow before quitting
your current job.
Problem solved.
If you jump ship or get fired, it isn't hard to eliminate most expenses temporarily and
live on savings for a brief period.
From renting out your home to refinancing or selling it, there are options there are
always options.
It might be emotionally difficult, but you won't starve.
Park your car in the garage and cancel insurance for a few months.
Carpool or take the bus until you find the next gig.
Rack up some more credit card debt and cook instead of eating out.
Sell all the crap that you spent hundreds or thousands on and never use.
Take a full inventory of your assets, cash reserves, debts and monthly expenses.
How long could you survive with your current resources or if you sold some assets?
Go through all expenses and ask yourself, if I had to eliminate this because I needed
an extra kidney, how would I do it?
Don't be melodramatic when there is no need.
Few things are fatal, particularly for smart people.
If you've made it this far in life, losing or dropping a job will often be little more
than a few weeks of vacation, unless you want more prior to something better.
3.
Health insurance and retirement accounts disappear if I quit.
Untrue.
I was scared of both when I was eliminated from TrueSan.
I had visions of rotting teeth and working at Walmart to survive.
Upon looking at the facts and exploring options, I realized that I could have identical medical
and dental coverage, the same provider and network, for $300 to $500 per month.
To transfer my 401k to another company, I chose Fidelity Investments, was even easier.
It took less than 30 minutes via phone and cost nothing.
Covering both of these bases takes less time than getting a customer service rep on the
phone to fix your electric bill.
4.
It will ruin my resume.
I love creative non-fiction.
It is not at all difficult to sweep gaps under the rug and make uncommon items the very things
that get job interviews.
How?
Do something interesting and make them jealous.
If you quit and then sit on your ass, I wouldn't hire you either.
On the other hand, if you have a one to two year world circumnavigation on your resume
or training with professional soccer teams in Europe to your credit, two interesting
things happen upon returning to the working world.
First, you will get more interviews because you will stand out.
Second, interviewers bored in their own jobs will spend the entire meeting asking how you
did it.
If there is any question of why you took a break or left your previous job, there is
one answer that cannot be countered.
I had a once in a lifetime chance to do exotic and envy producing experience and I couldn't
turn it down.
I figured that with 20 to 40 years of work to go, what's the rush?
The Cheesecake Factor
Would you like me to give you a formula for success?
It's quite simple really.
Double your rate of failure.
Thomas J. Watson, founder of IBM.
Summer 1999
Even before I tasted it, I knew something wasn't quite right.
After eight hours in the refrigerator, this cheesecake still hadn't set at all.
It swished in the gallon bowl like a viscous soup, chunks shifting and bobbing as I tilted
it under close inspection.
Somewhere a mistake had been made.
It could have been any number of things.
Three one pound sticks of Philly cream cheese, eggs, stevia, unflavored gelatin, vanilla,
or cream.
In this case, it was probably a combination of things and the lack of a few simple ingredients
that generally make a cheesecake a form of cake.
I was on a no carbohydrate diet and I had used this recipe before.
It had been so delicious that my roommates wanted their fair share and insisted on an
attempt at bulk production.
Hence began the mathematical shenanigans and problems.
Before Splenda and other miracles of sugar imitation came on the scene, the hardcore
used stevia, an herb 300 times sweeter than sugar.
One drop was like 300 packets of sugar.
It was a delicate tool and I wasn't a delicate cook.
I had once made a small handful of cookies using baking soda instead of baking powder
and that was bad enough to drive my roommates to puke on the lawn.
This new masterpiece made the cookies look like fine dining.
It tasted like liquid cream cheese mixed with cold water and about 600 packets of sugar.
I then did what any normal and rational person would do.
I grabbed the largest soup ladle with a sigh and sat down in front of the TV to face my
punishment.
I had wasted an entire Sunday and a boatload of ingredients.
It was time to reap what I had sown.
One hour and 20 large spoonfuls later, I hadn't made a dent in the enormous batch of soup
but I was down for the count.
Not only could I not eat anything but soup for two days, I couldn't bring myself to even
look at cheesecake, previously my favorite dessert, for more than four years.
Stupid?
Of course.
It's about as stupid as one can get.
This is a ridiculous and micro example of what people do on a larger scale with jobs
all the time, self-imposed suffering that can be avoided.
Sure, I learned a lesson and paid for the mistake.
The real question is, for what?
There are two types of mistakes, mistakes of ambition and mistakes of sloth.
The first is a result of a decision to act, to do something.
This type of mistake is made with incomplete information, as it's impossible to have all
the facts beforehand.
This is to be encouraged, fortune favors the bold.
The second is the result of a decision of sloth, to not do something, wherein we refuse
to change a bad situation out of fear despite having all the facts.
This is how learning experiences become terminal punishments, bad relationships become bad
marriages and poor job choices become lifelong prison sentences.
Yeah, but what if I'm in an industry where jumping around is looked down upon?
I've been here barely a year and prospective employers would think, would they?
Test assumptions before condemning yourself to more misery, I've seen one determinant
of sex appeal to good employers, performance.
If you are a rock star when it comes to results, it doesn't matter if you jump ship from a
bad company after three weeks.
On the other hand, if tolerating a punishing work environment for years at a time is a
prerequisite for promotion in your field, could it be that you're in a game not worth
winning?
The consequences of bad decisions do not get better with age.
What cheesecake are you eating?
Q&A Questions and Actions
Only those who are asleep make no mistakes.
Ingvar Kamprad, founder of IKEA, world's largest furniture brand.
Tens of thousands of people, most of them less capable than you, leave their jobs every
day.
It's neither uncommon nor fatal.
Here are a few exercises to help you realize just how natural job changes are and how simple
the transition can be.
First, a familiar reality check.
Are you more likely to find what you want in your current job or somewhere else?
If you were fired from your job today, what would you do to get things under financial
control?
Take a sick day and post your resume on the major job sites.
Even if you have no immediate plans to leave your job, post your resume on sites such as
www.monster.com and www.careerbuilder.com using a pseudonym if you prefer.
This will show you that there are options besides your current place of work.
Call headhunters if your level makes such a step appropriate and send a brief email
such as the one below to friends and non-work contacts.
Dear all, I am considering making a career move and am interested in all opportunities
that might come to mind.
Nothing is too outrageous or out of left field.
If you know what you want or don't want on some level, feel free to add, I'm particularly
interested in or I would like to avoid.
Please let me know if anything comes to mind.
Tim.
Call in sick or take a vacation day to complete all of these exercises during a normal 9 to
5 work day.
This will simulate unemployment and lessen the fear factor of non-office limbo.
In the world of action and negotiation, there is one principle that governs all others.
The person who has more options has more power.
Don't wait until you need options to search for them.
Take a sneak peek at the future now and it will make both action and being assertive
easier.
If you run or own a company, imagine that you have just been sued and must declare bankruptcy.
The company is now insolvent and you must close up shop.
This is something you must legally do and there are no finances to entertain other options.
How would you survive?
Tools and tricks.
Making the decision easier.
I work with fools, www.iworkwithfools.com.
Work with fools allows you to read or anonymously share work related stories about the foolish
co-workers and bosses most of us deal with daily.
Pulling the trigger together.
I resign, www.i-resign.com.
This site provides everything from second life job hunting advice to, my personal favorite,
sample resignation letters.
Don't miss the helpful discussion forums and hysterical web consultant from London letter.
Opening retirement accounts.
If you want an advisor and don't mind some fees, consider the following.
Franklin Templeton, www.franklintempleton.com, 800-527-2020.
American funds, www.americanfunds.com, 800-421-0180.
If you will do your own investing and want no load funds, check out these companies.
Fidelity Investments, www.fidelity.com, 800-343-3548, Vanguard, www.vanguard.com, 800-414-1321.
Health insurance for self-employed or unemployed.
More options and recommendations can be found on www.4hourworkweek.com.
E-health insurance, www.ehealthinsurance.com, 800-977-8860.
Etna, www.etna.com, Kaiser Permanente, www.kaiserpermanente.org, 800-207-5084.
Chapter 14.
Many Retirements, Embracing the Mobile Lifestyle.
Before the development of tourism, travel was conceived to be like study and its fruits
were considered to be the adornment of the mind and the formation of the judgment.
Paul Fussell, Abroad.
The simple willingness to improvise is more vital in the long run than research.
Rolf Potts, Vagabonding.
Upon Sherwood's return from Oktoberfest, dazed from killing neurons but the happiest he's
been in four years, the remote trial is made policy and Sherwood is inducted into the world
of the new rich.
All he needs now is an idea of how to exploit this freedom and the tools to give his finite
cash near infinite lifestyle output.
If you've gone through the previous steps, eliminating, automating, and severing the
leashes that bind you to one location, it's time to indulge in some fantasies and explore
the world.
Even if you have no ache for extended travel or think it's impossible, whether due to marriage
or mortgage or those little things known as children, this chapter is still the next
step.
There are fundamental changes I and most others put off until absence or preparation for it
forces them.
This chapter is your final exam in Mew's design.
The transformation begins in a small Mexican village.
Fables and Fortune Hunters.
An American businessman took a vacation to a small coastal Mexican village on doctor's
orders.
Unable to sleep after an urgent phone call from the office the first morning, he walked
out to the pier to clear his head.
A small boat with just one fisherman had docked, and inside the boat were several large yellow
fin tuna.
The American complimented the Mexican on the quality of his fish.
"'How long did it take you to catch them?' the American asked.
"'Only a little while,' the Mexican replied in surprisingly good English.
"'Why don't you stay out longer and catch more fish?' the American then asked.
"'I have enough to support my family and give a few to friends,' the Mexican said as he
unloaded them into a basket.
"'But what do you do with the rest of your time?'
The Mexican looked up and smiled.
"'I sleep late, fish a little, play with my children, take a siesta with my wife, Julia,
and stroll into the village each evening where I sip wine and play guitar with my amigos.
I have a full and busy life, senor.'
The American laughed and stood tall.
"'Sir, I'm a Harvard MBA and can help you.
You should spend more time fishing, and with the proceeds buy a bigger boat.
In no time you could buy several boats with the increased haul.
Eventually you would have a fleet of fishing boats,' he continued.
"'Instead of selling your catch to a middleman, you would sell directly to the consumers.
Eventually opening your own cannery.
You would control the product, processing, and distribution.
You would need to leave this small coastal fishing village, of course, and move to Mexico
City, then to Los Angeles, and eventually New York City, where you could run your expanding
enterprise with proper management.'
The Mexican fisherman asked, "'But, senor, how long will all this take?'
To which the American replied, "'Fifteen, twenty years, twenty-five tops.'
"'But what then, senor?'
The American laughed and said, "'That's the best part.
When the time is right, you would announce an IPO and sell your company stock to the
public and become very rich.
You would make millions.'
"'Millions, senor?
Then what?
Then you would retire and move to a small coastal fishing village, where you would
sleep late, fish a little, play with your kids, take a siesta with your wife, and stroll
to the village in the evenings where you could sip wine and play your guitar with your amigos.'
"'I recently had lunch in San Francisco with a good friend and former college roommate.
He will soon graduate from a top business school and return to investment banking.
He hates coming home from the office at midnight, but explained to me that if he works 80-hour
weeks for nine years he could become a managing director and make a cool three to ten million
per year.
Then he would be successful.'
"'Dude, what on earth would you do with three to ten million per year?' I asked.
"'His answer?'
"'I would take a long trip to Thailand.'"
That just about sums up one of the biggest self-deceptions of our modern age.
Extended world travel as the domain of the ultra-rich.
I've also heard the following.
"'I'll just work in the firm for 15 years, then I'll be partner and I can cut back on
hours.
Once I have a million in the bank, I'll put it in something safe like bonds, take $80,000
a year in interest, and retire to sail in the Caribbean.
I'll only work in consulting until I'm 35, then retire and ride a motorcycle across China.'"
If your dream, the pot of gold at the end of the career rainbow, is to live large in Thailand,
sail around the Caribbean, or ride a motorcycle across China, guess what?
All of them can be done for less than $3,000.
I've done all three.
Here are just two examples of how far a little can go.
The dollar figures in this chapter are all from a period immediately following President
Bush's re-election in 2004, which correlated to the worst dollar exchange rates of the
last 20 years.
Five days on a private Smithsonian tropical research island with three local fishermen
who caught and cooked all my food and also took me on tours of the best hidden dive spots
in Panama.
Three days of chartering a private plane in Mendoza wine country in Argentina and flying
over the most beautiful vineyards around the snow-capped Andes with a personal guide.
Question.
What did you spend your last $400 on?
It's two or three weekends of nonsense and throw-away forget-the-work-week behavior
in most cities.
$400 is nothing for a full eight days of life-changing experiences.
But eight days isn't what I'm recommending at all.
Those were just interludes in a much larger production.
I'm proposing much, much more.
The birth of many retirements and the death of vacations.
There is more to life than increasing its speed, Mohandas Gandhi.
In February of 2004, I was miserable and overworked.
My travel fantasy began as a plan to visit Costa Rica in March 2004 for four weeks of
Spanish and relaxation.
I needed a recharge and four weeks seemed reasonable by whatever cockamamie benchmark
you can use for such a thing.
A friend familiar with Central America dutifully pointed out that it would never work as Costa
Rica was about to enter its rainy season.
Torrential downpours weren't the uplifting jolt I needed, so I shifted my focus to four
weeks in Spain.
It's a long trip over the Atlantic, though, and Spain was close to other countries I'd
always wanted to visit.
I lost reasonable somewhere shortly thereafter and decided that I deserved a full three
months to explore my roots in Scandinavia after four weeks in Spain.
If there were any real time bombs or pending disasters, they would certainly crop up in
the first four weeks, so there really wasn't any additional risk in extending my trip to
three months.
Three months would be great.
Those three months turned into 15 and I started to ask myself, why not take the usual 20 to
30 year retirement and redistribute it throughout life instead of saving it all for the end?
The Alternative to Binge Traveling
Thanks to the interstate highway system, it is now possible to travel from coast to coast
without seeing anything.
Charles Kuralt, CBS News Reporter
If you are accustomed to working 50 weeks per year, the tendency, even after creating
the mobility to take extended trips, will be to go nuts and see 10 countries in 14 days
and end up a wreck.
It's like taking a starving dog to an all-you-can-eat buffet.
It will eat itself to death.
I did this three months into my 15-month vision quest, visiting seven countries and going
through at least 20 check-ins and check-outs with a friend who had negotiated three weeks
off.
The trip was an adrenaline-packed blast, but like watching life on Fast Forward.
It was hard for us to remember what had happened in which countries, except Amsterdam.
I refer, of course, to the amazing bike-riding opportunities and famous pastries.
We were both sick most of the time and we were upset to have to leave some places simply
because our pre-purchased flights made it so.
I recommend doing the exact opposite.
The Alternative to Binge Travel, the Mini-Retirement entails relocating to one place for
one to six months before going home or moving to another locale.
It is the anti-vacation in the most positive sense.
Though it can be relaxing, the Mini-Retirement is not an escape from your life, but a
re-examination of it, the creation of a blank slate.
Following elimination and automation, what would you be escaping from?
Rather than seeking to see the world through photo ops in between foreign but familiar
hotels, we aim to experience it at a speed that lets it change us.
This is also different from a sabbatical.
Sabbaticals are often viewed much like retirement as a one-time event.
Savor it now while you can.
The Mini-Retirement is defined as recurring.
It is a lifestyle.
I currently take three or four Mini-Retirements per year and know dozens who do the same.
Purging the Demons, Emotional Freedom
This is the very perfection of a man to find out his own imperfection.
St. Augustine 354 AD to 430 AD
True freedom is much more than having enough income and time to do what you want.
It is quite possible, actually the rule rather than the exception,
to have financial and time freedom but still be caught in the throes of the rat race.
One cannot be free from the stresses of a speed and size-obsessed culture until you
are free from the materialistic addictions, time-famine mindset,
and comparative impulses that created it in the first place.
This takes time.
The effect is not cumulative and no number of too weak, also called too weak.
Sightseeing trips can replace one good walkabout.
By all means go ahead and take a post office celebratory trip and go nuts for a few weeks.
I know I did. Rock on.
Ibiza and glow sticks, here I come.
Have some absinthe and drink lots of water.
Following that, sit down and plan a real Mini-Retirement.
In the experience of those I've interviewed,
it takes two to three months just to unplug from obsolete routines
and become aware of just how much we distract ourselves with constant motion.
Can you have a two-hour dinner with Spanish friends without getting anxious?
Can you get accustomed to a small town where all businesses take a siesta
for two hours in the afternoon and then close at 4 p.m.?
If not, you need to ask why.
Learn to slow down.
Get lost intentionally.
Observe how you judge both yourself and those around you.
Chances are that it's been a while.
Take at least two months to disincorporate old habits
and rediscover yourself without the reminder of a looming return flight.
The financial realities.
It just gets better.
The economic argument for Mini-Retirements is the icing on the cake.
Four days in a decent hotel or a week or two at a nice hostel
costs the same as a month in a nice posh apartment.
If you relocate, the expenses abroad also begin to replace,
often at much lower cost, bills you can then cancel stateside.
Here are some actual monthly figures from recent travels.
Highlights from both South America and Europe are shown side by side
to prove that luxury is limited by your creativity and familiarity with the locale,
not gross currency devaluation in third world countries.
It will be obvious that I did not survive on bread and begging.
I lived like a rock star and both experiences could be done
for less than 50% of what I spent.
My goal was enjoyment and not austere survival.
Airfare.
Free, courtesy of Amex Goldcard and Chase Continental Airlines Mastercard.
Muses are low maintenance but often expensive in one or both of two tactical areas,
manufacturing and advertising.
Shop for providers of both that are willing to accept credit cards as payment
and negotiate this upfront if necessary by saying
Rather than trying to negotiate you down on pricing,
I just ask that you accept payment by credit card.
If you can do that, we'll choose you over competitor X.
This is yet another example of a firm offer and not a question
that puts you in a stronger negotiating position.
For a detailed explanation of how I multiply points for travel
using concepts like piggybacking and recycling,
log on to www.4hourworkweek.com
Housing.
Penthouse apartment on the equivalent of New York's Fifth Avenue in Buenos Aires,
including house cleaners, personal security guards,
phone, energy and high-speed internet, $550 US per month.
Enormous apartment in the trendy Soho-like Prenzlauer Berg district of Berlin,
including phone and energy, $300 US per month.
Meals.
Four or five-star restaurant meals twice daily in Buenos Aires, $10 US,
$300 US per month.
Berlin, $18 US, $540 US per month.
Entertainment.
VIP table and unlimited champagne for eight people at the hottest club,
Opera Bay in Buenos Aires, $150 US, $18.75 US per person
times four visits per month equals $75 US per month per person.
Cover, drinks and dancing at the hottest clubs in West Berlin,
$20 US per person per night times four equals $80 US per month.
Education.
Two hours daily of private Spanish lessons in Buenos Aires, five times per week,
$5 US per hour times 40 hours per month equals $200 US per month.
Two hours of daily private tango lessons with two world-class professional dancers,
$8.33 US per hour times 40 hours per month, $333.20 US per month.
Four hours daily of top-tier German language instruction in Nollendorfplatz Berlin,
$175 US per month, which would have paid for itself even if I had not attended classes,
as the student ID card entitled me to over 40% discounts on all transportation.
Six hours per week of mixed martial arts MMA training at the Top Berlin Academy,
free in exchange for tutoring in English two hours per week.
Transportation.
Monthly subway pass and daily cab rides to and from tango lessons in Buenos Aires,
$75 US per month.
Monthly subway, tram and bus pass in Berlin with student discount, $85 US per month.
Four-week total for luxury living.
Buenos Aires, $1,533.20 including round-trip airfare from JFK with a one-month stopover in
Panama. Nearly one-third of this total is from the daily one-on-one instruction from world-class
teachers in Spanish and tango. Berlin, $1,180 including round-trip airfare from JFK and a
one-week stopover in London. How do these numbers compare to your current domestic monthly expenses
including rent, car insurance, utilities, weekend expenditures, partying, public transportation,
gas, memberships, subscriptions, food and all the rest. Add it all up and you may well realize,
like I did, that traveling around the world and having the time of your life can save you
serious money. Fear factors, overcoming excuses not to travel. Traveling is the ruin of all
happiness. There is no looking at a building here after seeing Italy. Fanny Burney, 1752 to 1840,
English novelist. But I have a house and kids. I can't travel. What about health insurance?
What if something happens? Isn't travel dangerous? What if I get kidnapped or mugged? But I'm a woman.
Traveling alone would be dangerous. Most excuses not to travel are exactly that, excuses. I've been
there so this isn't a holier than thou sermon. I know too well that it's easier to live with
ourselves if we can cite an external reason for inaction. I've since met paraplegics and the deaf,
senior citizens and single mothers, homeowners and the poor, all of whom have sought and found
excellent life-changing reasons for extended travel instead of dwelling on the million small
reasons against it. Most of the concerns above are addressed in the Q&A but one in particular
requires a bit of preemptive nerve calming. It's 10 p.m. Do you know where your children are?
The prime fear of all parents prior to their first international trip is somehow losing a
child in the shuffle. The good news is that if you are comfortable taking your kids to New York,
San Francisco, Washington DC or London, you will have even less to worry about in the starting
cities I recommend in the Q&A. There are fewer guns and violent crimes in all of them compared
to most large U.S. cities. The likelihood of problems is decreased further when travel is
less airport and hotel hopping among strangers and more relocation to a second home, a mini
retirement. But still, what if? Jen Errico, a single mother who took her two children on a
five-month world tour, had a more acute fear than most, one that often woke her at 2 a.m. in a cold
sweat. What if something happens to me? She wanted to prime her kids for worst-case
scenario but didn't want to scare them to death so, like all good mothers, she made it a game.
Who can best memorize the itineraries, hotel addresses and mom's phone number? She had emergency
contacts in each country whose numbers were loaded into the speed dial of her cell phone
which had global roaming. In the end, nothing happened. Now she's planning to move to a ski
chalet in Europe and send her kids to school in multilingual France. Success begets success.
She was most afraid in Singapore and, in retrospect, it was where she had the least
reason to be worried. She took her kids to South Africa, among other places. She was scared because
it was the first stop and she was unaccustomed to traveling with her kids. It was perception,
not reality. Robin Malinsky-Rummel, who spent a year traveling through South America with her
husband and seven-year-old son, was warned by friends and family not to visit Argentina
after their devaluation riots in 2001. She did her homework, decided that the fear was unfounded,
and proceeded to have the time of her life in Patagonia. When she told locals that she was
originally from New York, their eyes widened and jaws dropped. I saw those buildings blow up on TV.
I would never go to such a dangerous place. Don't assume that places abroad are more dangerous than
your hometown. Most aren't. Robin is convinced, as I am, that people use children as an excuse
to stay in their comfort zones. It's an easy excuse not to do something adventurous. How to overcome
the fear? Robin recommends two things. One, before embarking on a long international trip with your
children for the first time, take a trial run for a few weeks. Two, for each stop arrange a week of
language classes that begin upon arrival and take advantage of transportation from the airport if
available. The school staff will often handle apartment rentals for you, and you will be able
to make friends and learn the area before setting off on your own. But what if your concern isn't so
much losing your children, but losing your mind because of your children? Several families
interviewed for this book recommended the oldest persuasive tool known to man, bribery. Each child
is given some amount of virtual cash, 25 to 50 cents, for each hour of good behavior. The same
amount is subtracted from their accounts for breaking the rules. All purchases for fun,
whether souvenirs, ice cream, or otherwise, come out of their own individual accounts. No balance,
no goodies. This often requires more self-control on the part of the parents than the children.
How to get airfare at 50 to 80 percent off. This is not a book on budget travel. Most of the cost
cutting recommendations found in such guides are designed with the binge traveler in mind.
For someone embarking on a mini retirement, an extra 150 dollars for hassle-free airfare,
amortized over two months, is a better deal than 20 hours of manipulating frequent flyer points
on an unknown airline or chasing questionable deals.
Following two weeks of research, I once bought a one-way standby ticket to Europe for 120 dollars.
I arrived at JFK brimming with enthusiasm and confidence, look at all these schmucks paying
retail, and 90 percent of the participating airlines refused my ticket. Those that didn't
were booked for weeks solid. I ended up staying in a hotel for two nights for a $300 tab,
filing a complaint with Amex and eventually calling 1-800-FLY-Europe from the JFK terminal
in frustration. I bought a round-trip ticket to London on Virgin Atlantic for $300
and left an hour later. The same ticket cost more than $700 a week earlier.
After 25 countries, I found a few simple strategies that get you 90 percent of the
possible savings without wasting time or producing migraines. 1. Use credit cards with reward points
for large muse-related advertising and manufacturing expenses. I am not spending more money to get
pennies on the dollar. These costs are inevitable, so I capitalize on them. This alone gets me a free
round-trip international ticket each three months. 2. Purchase tickets far in advance,
three months or more, or last minute, and aim for both departure and return between Tuesday and
Thursday. Long-term travel planning turns me off and can be expensive if plans change, so I opt
for purchasing all tickets in the last four or five days prior to target departure. The value
of empty seats is $0 as soon as the flight takes off, so true last-minute seats are cheap.
3. Use Orbitz. Fix the departure and return dates between Tuesday and Thursday,
then look at prices for alternative departure dates each of the three days into the past
and each of the three days into the future. Using the cheapest departure date, do the same
with the return dates to find the cheapest combination. Check this price against the fares
on the website of the airline itself, then begin bidding on www.priceline.com at 50 percent of the
better of the two, working up in $50 increments until you get a better price or realize it's not
possible. 3. Consider buying one ticket to an international hub and then an ongoing ticket
with a cheap local airline. If going to Europe, I generally get three tickets. One free Southwest
ticket from transferring Amex points from California to JFK, the cheapest ticket to Heathrow
in London, and then an uber-cheap ticket on either Ryanair or EasyJet to my final destination.
I have paid as little as ten dollars to go from London to Berlin or London to Spain. That is not
a typo. Local airlines will often offer seats on flights for just the cost of taxes and gasoline.
To Central or South American destinations, I'll often look at local flights from Panama
or international flights from Miami. 4. When more is less. Cutting the clutter.
Human beings have the capacity to learn to want almost any conceivable material object.
Given, then, the emergence of a modern industrial culture capable of producing almost anything,
the time is ripe for opening the storehouse of infinite need. It is the modern Pandora's box,
and its plagues are loose upon the world. Jules Henry. To be free, to be happy and fruitful,
can only be attained through sacrifice of many common but overestimated things. Robert Henry.
5. I know the son of one deca-millionaire, a personal friend of Bill Gates, who now manages
private investments and ranches. He has accumulated an assortment of beautiful homes over the last
decade, each with full-time cooks, servants, cleaners and support staff. How does he feel
about having a home in each time zone? It's a pain in the ass. He feels like he's working
for his staff who spend more time in his homes than he does. Extended travel is the perfect
excuse to reverse the damage of years of consuming as much as you can afford.
It's time to get rid of clutter disguised as necessities before you drag a five-piece
Samsonite set around the world. That is hell on earth. I'm not going to tell you to walk around
in a robe and sandals scowling at people who have televisions. I hate that Kashi-crunching
holier-than-thou stuff. Turning you into a possession-less scribe is not my intention.
Let's face it, though. There are tons of things in your home and life that you don't use, need,
or even particularly want. They just came into your life as impulsive flotsam and jetsam and
never found a good exit. Whether you're aware of it or not, this clutter creates indecision and
distractions, consuming attention and making unfettered happiness a real chore. It is impossible
to realize how distracting all the crap is, whether porcelain dolls, sports cars or ragged
t-shirts, until you get rid of it. Prior to my 15-month trip, I was stressed about how to fit
all of my belongings into a 14-by-10-foot rental storage space. Then I realized a few things.
I would never re-read the business magazines I'd saved. I wore the same five shirts and four pairs
of pants 90 percent of the time. It was about time for new furniture, and I never used the
outdoor grill or lawn furniture. Even getting rid of things I never used proved to be like a
capitalist short circuit. It was hard to toss things I had once thought were valuable enough
to spend money on. The first ten minutes of sorting through clothing was like choosing
which child of mine should live or die. I hadn't exercised my throwing-out muscles in some time.
It was a struggle to put nice Christmas clothing I'd never worn into the go-pile,
and just as hard to separate myself from worn and ragged clothing I had for sentimental reasons.
Once I'd passed through the first few tough decisions, though, the momentum had been built,
and it was a breeze. I donated all of the seldom-worn clothing to Goodwill. The furniture
took less than ten hours to offload, using Craigslist, and, though I was paid less than 50
percent of the retail prices for some and nothing for others, who cared? I'd used and abused them
for five years and would get a new set when I landed back in the United States. I gave the
grill and lawn furniture to my friend, who lit up like a kid at Christmas. I had made his month.
It felt wonderful, and I had an extra $300 in pocket change to cover at least a few weeks of
rent abroad. I created 40 percent more space in my apartment and hadn't even grazed the surface.
It wasn't the extra physical space that I felt most. It was the extra mental space. It was as
if I had twenty mental applications running simultaneously before, and now I had just one or
two. My thinking was clearer and I was much, much happier. I asked every vagabond interviewee in
this book what their one recommendation would be for the first-time extended travelers.
The answer was unanimous. Take less with you. The overpacking impulse is hard to resist. The
solution is to set what I call a settling fund. Rather than pack for all contingencies,
I bring the absolute minimum and allocate $100 to $300 for purchasing things after I arrive and
as I travel. I no longer take toiletries or more than a week's worth of clothing. It's a blast.
Finding shaving cream or a dress shirt overseas can produce an adventure in and of itself.
Pack as if you were coming back in one week. Here are the bare essentials listed in order of
importance. One. One week of clothing appropriate to the season, including one
semi-formal shirt and pair of pants or skirt for customs. Think t-shirts, one pair of shorts,
and a multipurpose pair of jeans. Two. Backup photocopies or scanned copies of all important
documents, health insurance, passport, visa, credit cards, debit cards, etc. Three. Debit cards,
credit cards, and $200 worth of small bills in local currency. Traveler's checks are not
accepted in most places and are a hassle. Four. Small cable bike lock for securing luggage while
in transit or in hostels. A small padlock for lockers if needed. Five. Electronic dictionaries
for target languages. Book versions are too slow to be of use in conversation and small grammar
guides or texts. Six. One broad strokes travel guide. That's it. To laptop or not to laptop?
Unless you are a writer, I vote no. It's far too cumbersome and distracting.
Using GoToMyPC.com to access your home computer from internet cafes
encourages the habit we want to develop, making the best use of time instead of killing it.
The Bora Bora Dealmaker
Baffin Island, Nunavut. Josh Steinitz stood at the edge of the world and stared in amazement.
He dug his boots into the six feet of sea ice and the unicorns danced. Ten narwhals, rare cousins
of the beluga, came to the surface and pointed their six-foot-plus spiral tusks toward the heavens.
The pod of three thousand pound whales then fell into the depths once again.
The narwhals are deep divers, more than three thousand feet in some cases, so Josh had at
least twenty minutes until their reappearance. It seemed appropriate that he was with the narwhals.
Their name came from Old Norse and referred to their mottled white and blue skin.
Navarro. Corpse man. He smiled as he had done often in the last few years. Josh himself was
a dead man walking. One year after graduating from college, Josh found out that he had oral
squamous carcinoma, cancer. He had plans to be a management consultant. He had plans to be lots
of things. Suddenly none of it mattered. Less than half of those who suffered from this particular
type of cancer survived. The reaper didn't discriminate and came without warning. It became
clear that the biggest risk in life wasn't making mistakes but regret, missing out on things. He
could never go back and recapture years spent doing something he disliked. Two years later,
and cancer free, Josh set off on an indefinite global walkabout, covering expenses as a freelance
writer. He later became the co-founder of a website that provides customized itineraries
to would-be vagabonds. His executive status didn't lessen his mobile addiction. He was
as comfortable cutting deals from the overwater bungalows of Bora Bora as he was in the log cabins
of the Swiss Alps. He once took a call from a client while at Camp Muir on Mount Rainier.
The client needed to confirm some sales numbers and asked Josh about all the wind in the background.
Josh's answer? I'm standing at 10,000 feet on a glacier and this afternoon the wind is
whipping us down the mountain. The client said he'd let Josh get back to what he was doing.
Another client called Josh while he was leaving a Balinese temple and heard the gongs in the
background. The client asked Josh if he was in church. Josh wasn't quite sure what to say.
All that came out was, yes? This book is continued on Disc 7.

# touched on 2025-06-13T18:51:19.342615Z